 Management of Aduvie international School, Abuja has again restated it’s commitment to sports development in the country. OLYMPIC, 1,1A,  L-R,   President, International Olympic  Committee Dr Thomas Bach Acknowledging Cheers  during his Visit to Aduvie International School in Abuja yesterday OLYMPIC, 4,4A, L-R,   President, International Olympic  Committee Dr Thomas Bach, Head of School, Aduvie International School Mr Abiodun Olusoji and President, Nigeria  Olympic  Committee  Dr Habu Gumel during the Visit of the President, International Olympic  Committee to Aduvie International School in Abuja yesterday  Head of School, Aduvie International School, Mr Olusoji Abiodun stated this when the International Olympic Committee, IOC, President, His Excellency, Mr. Thomas Bach visited the school Thursday,  to unveil the Olympic rings and at the same time lay the foundation stone of the new sports pavilion Abiodun said  Aduvie International School being one of the NOC partner schools in Nigeria and privileged to be the host school for the IOC President’s visit, two projects were embarked on  to make Bach’s visit to Aduvie historic and memorable. “They are a) construction of the Olympic rings and b) construction of an additional 200-seating capacity sports pavilion for our students and other users of our sporting facilities. OLYMPIC, 2,2B,2C, L-R,   Deputy Head of School ,Administrative, Aduvie International School Mr Jude Akudube, Deputy Head of School Academics Mr Folaponmile Olufemi, Head of School Mr Abiodun Olusoji, Minister of Sports Mr Sunday Dare and President, International Olympic  Committee Dr Thomas Bach during the Visit of the President, International  Olympic  Committee to Aduvie International School in Abuja yesterday He said, “We engage our students in varieties of sports and games such as football, basketball, volley ball, swimming, badminton, karate, ballet etc. Our students have won several awards/laurels locally and internationally in academic, sports, ICT and other facets of school life. For example, 3 out of 5 students that represented Nigeria in the 2019 Microsoft Office Specialist (MOS), Adobe Certified Associate (ACA) and Computer Fundamentals (IC3) competition in the USA were Aduvie students. “Also, 12 Aduvie students travelled to Manchester on invitation by Euro-world Sports Limited for the Britannia International Cup that took place between 28th July, 2019 and 4th August, 2019 at the Cheshire County Sports Club, Manning Lane, Chester, England. L-R,    Deputy Head of School Academics Aduvie  International School  Mr Folaponmile Olufemi, Head of School Mr Abiodun Olusoji, President, International Olympic  Committee Dr Thomas Bach, Minister of Sports Mr Sunday Dare and President, Nigeria Olympic  Committee  Dr Habu Gumel during the Visit of the President, International Olympic  Committee to Aduvie International School in Abuja yesterday  “Aduvie hosted a one-week (Saturday 6th – Friday 12th April, 2019) Easter Soccer Training Camp organized by the FCV Soccer Academy, UK, in collaboration with the Gladiator Soccer Academy of Nigeria for secondary and primary school students (boys and girls). Team Aduvie participated in the global round of 2019 World Scholar’s Cup that took place at The Hague in Netherlands between 21st and 26th July, 2019. Four (4) of our students are currently at the Tournament of Champions in Yale University, USA representing Nigeria at the World Scholar’s Cup. Sports and Games consist of “all forms of physical activities that contribute to physical fitness, mental well-being and social interactions.” Abiodun said in recent years, finding has shown that physical education and sports play an important role in school life and may help to improve behaviour, health, retention, develop social skills and in turn, have a positive influence on academic performance. In fact, Abiodun said, Education will remain incomplete without physical training and exercise. “All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy” is a famous saying. Healthy mind can only be found in a healthy body and for a body to be healthy, physical exercise is a must. L-R,   President, Nigeria  Olympic  Committee  Dr Habu Gumel, President, International Olympic  Committee Dr Thomas Bach, Minister of Sports Mr Sunday Dare, Deputy Head of School ,Administrative, Aduvie International School Mr Jude Akudube and  Head of School Mr Abiodun Olusoji  during the Visit of the President, International Olympic  Committee to Aduvie International School in Abuja yesterday He therefore commended the President of Nigeria Olympic Committee, NOC, President of the IOC and all their officials for the great work they are doing in Nigeria and all over the world to promote sports and games. “We also thank you for building a peaceful and better world by educating our youths through sports practiced without discrimination and in the Olympic spirit, which requires mutual understanding with a spirit of friendship, solidarity and fair play” he added. In his remarks, the IOC President, Mr. Thomas Bach, Said he can confirm that the children of Aduvie International School have a great future as they already imbibe there core Olympic values which are excellence, respect and friendship. According to him, “The students are enjoying an excellent education enriched with Olympic values. I wish to advise you that your future lies with imbibing Olympic values which are excellence, respect and friendship”. “I urge you to always give your best in whatever you are doing. Learn to respect yourselves and others. Respect the rules because we cannot live together if you don it respect the rules.  L-R,    Head of Nursery, Aduvie International School   Mrs  Uche Akinboyewa, Head of School Mr Abiodun Olusoji, President, International Olympic  Committee Dr Thomas Bach, President, Nigeria Olympic  Committee  Dr Habu Gumel and Minister of Sports Mr Sunday  Dare during the Visit of the President, International Olympic Committee to Aduvie International School in Abuja yesterday “Friendship is another value. Always consider that we are all equal and show friendship to everyone”. While awarding a medal to the school designating it as an Olympic school, Bach told the students that winning does not make them superior to anybody else, urging them to respect others