Premium Cognac brand, Remy Martin announces the launch of its new global brand campaign capturing the essence of collaborative efforts and the success it generates. The campaign tagged, ‘Team Up for Excellence’ aims to emphasize that behind every individual success is a collective story of collaborators united for excellence. The global campaign launch took place on October 21st, 2019 with a dazzling celebration in Versailles, France. The prestigious event was graced by guests from around the world including Jermaine Dupri, Tamra Simmons, Murda Beatz, Christopher Ubosi amongst others who share the same uncompromising commitment to achieving excellence in their respective arts.  Consistent with Remy Martin’s quest of excellence, the new campaign seeks to highlight people with extraordinary accomplishments and the various talents behind them – their teams. To buttress the contemporary idea of the campaign, two films directed by Brazilian director, Vellas were conceived. The films draw on the iconic, nearly 300-year history of Rémy Martin, rooted in reflecting the brands values of authenticity, audacity and generosity.  To launch the campaign locally, Remy Martin has joined forces with a talent who embodies the spirit of the brand; Christopher Ubosi, Founder and CEO of Megalectrics Ltd, the company behind multiple radio station brands – Beat FM, Naija FM, Classic FM and Lagos Talks FM which are at the forefront of entertainment broadcasting across Nigeria. The campaign will introduce and showcase the team behind Christopher with an appealing visual. Assets from the local campaign will be rolled out across Nigeria over the next few weeks.  History has often told us the timeless stories of remarkable individuals, but history concealed the essential part of some extraordinary characters behind these people. Remy Martin is confident that by partnering with Christopher Ubosi to achieve this feat millions of people across all demographics will be inspired to Team Up for Excellence.  Remy Martin’s success through history lies in the encounter and collaboration of key characters – The Wine Grower, The Master Distiller, The Cooper and The Cellar Master. And like Remy Martin, Christopher Ubosi is where he is today because of the key talents he has encountered, collaborated with through the years and have stood by him.  “My Journey has been a unique one fueled by collaborative efforts” says Christopher, “Having the right team members like Deji, Gbemi and Chico¬ has been key to birthing and executing various projects successfully and that’s why the Megalectrics brands have risen to the top of the industry.”  He added, “My team members who will be featuring in this campaign include the Group General Manager for Megalectrics, Deji Awokoya, the Program Director of Naija FM, Gbemi Olateru-Olagbegi and the Program Director of Classic FM, Chico Aligwekwe.”  Global Executive Director of Rémy Martin, Augustin Depardon stated “Rémy Martin is more than just a brand, it is a constellation of talent driven by that rarely found feeling of belonging to a real family. We remain committed to exploring collaborations with those who have embodied diversity and multiplicity of their lives through achieved successes.”  ABOUT RÉMY MARTIN  Founded in 1724, Rémy Martin is the embodiment of Cognac Fine Champagne. The fruit of the prestigious regions of Grande and Petite Champagne, its cognac holds outstanding ageing potential. The exclusive selection of grapes that make up the heart and soul of our cognac, combined with the inimitable know-how of the cellar masters, create a one-of-a-kind aromatic intensity. For over three hundred years, the House of Rémy Martins has pursued one ambition: to reveal the talents of nature and humankind through its quest to capture the very heart of Cognac.