National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) has approved the appointment of Ademola A. Abidogun as the substantive Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Guinea Insurance PLC. The approval came in a letter dated 8th November 2019, captioned “Final Approval to Appoint Mr. Ademola A. Abidogun as the Substantive Managing Director/CEO of Guinea Insurance PLC. In a statement by the Chairman, Board of Directors of the company, Barrister, Godson Ugochukwu“Mr. Abidogun brings to Guinea Insurance PLC, 24 years experience in providing strategic and operations leadership in uniquely challenging situations in the insurance industry.” He is a seasoned professional with inestimable depth and wealth of technical experience acknowledged industry-wide. His combined expertise in marketing, insurance broking, underwriting/claims administration, oil and gas, banking, telecoms, reinsurance, product development, business risk advisory, special risks and strategic planning, offer a formidable springboard for relaunching the Company’s propensity to act and hence, develop and implement sustainable plans for long-term growth and shareholder value creation. Prior to his appointment, Ademola had championed the affairs of many companies in the insurance industry; the most recent being: Fin Insurance Company Limited, where he served as Executive Director, Technical/Operations and Ag. Managing Director. In Cornerstone Insurance PLC, he pioneered the Bancassurance/Retail team as Assistant General Manager. He holds a Master of Science degree in Business Administration from Rivers State College of Science and Technology (2007); He is an alumnus of the prestigious London and Lagos Business Schools as well as the University of Texas. As an erudite insurance professional; he has attended numerous management courses and seminars both locally and internationally. In a related development, the 61st Annual General Meeting of the Company holds on Wednesday, November 20, 2019 in Uyo, AkwaIbom State; and as consistent with the conduct of annual general meetings, Mr. Ademola Abidogun’sappointment as Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, will be ratified following the resolution by shareholders of Guinea Insurance PLC at the forthcoming annual general meeting. About Guinea Insurance PLC Guinea Insurance Plc, with its headquarters in Jibowu, Lagos State, Nigeria, is a foremost risk management solution provider. The company’s products are developed to cater for the insurance needs of Nigerians of all walks of life, irrespective of their location or socio-economic class. Its Rapid Claims Payment System (RCPS) is designed to ensure that claims settlement process is concluded within 72 hours upon receipt of a duly Executed Discharge Voucher (EDV) from the insured.   The Captioned Photo: Managing Director/CEO of Guinea Insurance PLC, Mr. Ademola A. Abidogun.