The NCC as the telecom regulator is aware that this feat of telecom being central to our daily life could not have been achieved without the consumers and as such identified the Consumer as very important stakeholders in the Telecom industry. This is evident in the 8-point agenda of the Commission where the Empowerment and Protection of the consumers from unfair practices through availability of information and education to make informed choices in the use of ICT services is emphasized. The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, Professor Umar Garba Danbatta stated this at the NCC Special Day at ongoing Lagos International Trade Fairs, LITF, at Tafawa Belawa Square Lagos.  Prof who was ably represented at the event by the Deputy Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau of the Commission, Ismail Adedigba said that the commission has adopted different strategies to reach out to our consumers.  “Participation at strategic international Trade Fairs such as the one we are having here today is one of them.  International Trade Fairs over the years have served as viable platforms for reaching out to our teeming telecom Consumers. The Nigerian Communications Commission Special Day at the trade fairs aims at educating and informing consumers on the use of communication services and their rights as telecom consumers.  “As a telecom consumer, you deserve the right to get value for your investment. NCC as sector regulator has devised ways to lodge your complaints when you are dissatisfied with the services provided by your operator.  “The Commission will apply appropriate regulatory measures and sanctions against such service provider. Our participation this year, once again, provides another opportunity for the NCC to interact with telecoms consumers, to listen to your concerns on telecom services delivery in order to gain more insight into your perspective towards protecting them from less than satisfactory practices by the service providers.  Danbatta reiterated that the Special Day at the 2019Lagos International Trade Fairs specially organised to strategise with our consumers another opportunity to seek, identify key challenges and proffer solutions to various telecoms issues confronting them.  He said Lagos State with a population of nearly 20million people is unarguably the most economically important state of the country, and the nation’s largest urban centre. It is a major financial and commercial nerve centre of the country and would be the fifth largest economy in Africa.  The Director, Consumer Affairs Bureau of the Commission, Mrs Felicia Onwuegbuchulam  who spoke earlier saying the commission leverages on the large number of participants here to interact with telecom consumers and improving consumer experience of telecom services to participants.  Mrs Onwuegbuchulam was represented by  the Zonal Controller, Lagos of NCC, Mr Henry Ojiokpota disclosed that the Commission carries out its functions to ensure service availability, accessibility and affordability to consumers, be it individual or corporates  who are increasingly depending on ICT/telecom to conduct personal and business activities on daily basis.  She further noted that the important role of telecom services and information and communication technology (ICT), at large, in enhancing business, creating new business line, driving innovation and accelerating value addition is inherent in the overarching thematic focus of the Fair which is “Our Brand Promise- Connecting Businesses, Creating Value:”.  The director pointed out “we strongly understand that the telecom consumers are the pay masters of the telecom industry and, of course, the target beneficiaries of all NCC’s activities.  “As an institution which is at the centre of driving our digital economic transformation for holistic economic development, we strive to pursue universal access and service to promote efficiency for players in the banking and finance, medicine, commerce, education, oil and gas, art and culture, agriculture, and other sectors of the economy.”  The Captioned Photo: The Executive Vice Chairman of the Nigerian Communications Commission, NCC, Professor Umar Garba Danbatta