As  implementation of the African Continental Free Trade Area agreement is around the corner, one the major key stakeholders, the Nigeria Shippers’ Council (NSC) has agreed to provide cargo defence fund to shippers and trade groups to pursue their legitimate business. The Executive Secretary/Chief Executive (ES/CE), Barrister. Hassan Bello has disclosed this at the two- day national workshop on the role of Maritime in the AfCFTA Agreement with the theme: “AFCFTA: Boosting Nigeria’s Economy For Sustainable Development” recently.  The two-day national workshop was organized by Association of Maritime Journalists of Nigeria (AMJON) which was held at Ikeja, Lagos.  Hassan who was represented at the workshop by Adaora Nwaonu, Chief Operating Officer, Trade Services, noted that enhanced economic growth in the maritime industry under AfCFTA would not come automatically but through concerted steps.  In the speech, NSC Boss noted that growth can only come through enhancing industrial productive capacity: trade facilitation agreement by introducing customs management reforms, implementing the trade facilitation agreement.  Bello further said that for the achievement of AFCFTA the stakeholders’ needs supports of cargo defence fund to shippers and trade groups to pursue their legitimate business.  He added that supervision of the establishment of transport services such as inland dry port, truck transit parks, border information centre, and port services support portal.  “Offer stakeholders advice on how to avoid pitfalls in their international trade.  “Continuously advise the Federal Government on AfCFTA and other policy formulation and implementation in respect of shipping interests.  “Carry out regular consultation with cross border practitioners and regional bodies for smooth trade facilitation; regular representation of stakeholders on regional and sub-regional fora.  “Adopts a sustainable seminars/workshop to educate stakeholders on international best practice and conduct research for the benefit of stakeholders; post expansion project, cross border, Trade processes, roads, rail infrastructure development, sea link project, improved and sustained trade corridor management,” he said.  Speaking further, Bello declared that the trade agreement constituted the most significant development in Africa’s integration efforts added that it is expected that the free trade area will promote the development of manufacturing and agro-processing and with them, accelerated inclusive economic diversification and competitiveness across Africa.  He therefore solicited for all relevant stakeholders’ hands should be on deck for the success and for Nigeria to harness the presented opportunities  The Captioned Photo: The Executive Secretary/Chief Executive (ES/CE), Barrister. Hassan Bello