Stanbic IBTC, a member of Standard Bank Group, has reiterated its readiness to support the Nigerian agricultural sector with the aim of boosting food production in the country.L-R: Prince Gbolahan Lawal, Commissioner for Agriculture, Lagos State; Mrs. Folasade Jaji, Secretary to the Lagos State Government and Mr. Sam Ocheho, Head, Global Markets, Stanbic IBTC Bank PLC., at the Lagos Farm Fair to mark the 2019 World Food Day at Police College, Ikeja, Lagos Dr. DemolaSogunle, Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Bank, disclosed this at the 2019 edition of the Lagos Farm Fair. The Lagos Farm Fair is an initiative of the British American Tobacco Nigeria Foundation in partnership with the Lagos State Government to commemorate the World Food Day which is celebrated on October 16, annually. The Stanbic IBTC Bank Chief Executive was represented by Sam Ocheho, Head, Global Markets, also of Stanbic IBTC Bank. He said: “We are proud to be a part of this project because it connects with our purpose. Creating these linkages means that farmers will be able to get value for their effort and in turn be able to do more and with that, we will have better farming and increase in food production. It means that buyers will get direct access to farmers and materials that feed into their business to keep their factories running. It means that more jobs will be created and secured. It means that communities will thrive. It means that it is commerce that will drive progress. This is why we are very proud to append our name to this project.” He added that the company was interested in the progress of Nigerian communities and ensuring that businesses thrive, a reference to the company’s tagline which is Moving You Forward. In his welcome remarks, Prince GbolahanLawal, the Commissioner for Agriculture, Lagos State, said: “Our efforts to ensure food security in the face of unfavourable climate change have resulted in a lot of innovations aimed at preventing food shortage in the state. We have also embarked on a lot of empowerment programmes for our farmers and all the major players in the food value chain.” The Lagos Farm Fair is a platform which drives market access for farmers, thus providing a business platform to promote Agric-business development.