The Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Bala Elkana, has said music superstar, Davido, illegally arrested the two girls who pranked that Davido impregnated one of them. In a video which went viral last week, the two girls had said that Davido slept with Helen, one of them, at the Eko Hotel and Suites and got impregnated. This infuriated the DMW boss, whose wife, Chioma, had just given birth at that time. Davido had promised toget the girls arrested and charged to court for defamation. In a turn of events, another video surfaced on Monday where the girls are seen in handcuffs. In a video posted by Davido’s hypeman, Special Spesh, the two ladies, Helen and Susan, are seen in handcuffs as they are queried before the camera. The police spokesman Elkana, however, denied that the police was responsible for the illegal arrest. Elkana criticised the singer and his crew for parading the girls in handcuffs and said that the girls can sue Davido for illegal arrest. Elkana said private citizens have no right to parade suspects and only a court of competent jurisdiction can pronounce someone guilty of a crime. Meanwhile the artiste will release his second album on Novembe,r 22. The second studio album titled ‘A Good Time’ will be released by Davido Music Worldwide/Sony Music U.K./RCA Records. Davido made the announcement on Monday week via his Instagram page. He tweeted; “A GOOD TIME NOV 22!!!” The album will serve as a follow up on the last album titled, ‘Omo Baba Olowo’, which was released in 2012. According to the singer, the album will also feature; ‘Blow my mind’ featuring American singer, Chris Brown and ‘Risky’ featuring Popcaan, which he released recently. It would be recalled that sometimes last month, the singer held a listening party. There, he hinted attendees about the upcoming album and some songs featured on the album was played. Davido also stated that the album will feature productions from all his go-to hitmakers; Kiddominant, Shizzi, Speroachbeatz, FreshVDM and one international producer.