“The Board also decided that the CEO designate will lead the restructuring during the Transition period between now and final exit date of Mr. Avuru on 31 July 2020.”  The Board of Seplat Petroleum Development Company PLC (“SEPLAT”) plans to position itself for a next phase growth ambition which would see the expansion of its footprint in terms of energy business activities, a plan to pursue offshore assets as well as opportunity driven entry into different geographies. The Company believes that such a corporate transition would require a different kind of organizational structure, people skills set and mentality to compete well in the expanded space. In view of this, Seplat will be reviewing its current organizational and systems structure. The Board of Company, therefore, from the latest aspirations, has selected Mr. Roger Brown as the successor to Mr. Avuru as CEO, on 31 July 2020 when Mr. Avuru steps down finally. The Board also decided that the CEO designate will lead the restructuring during the Transition period between now and final exit date of Mr. Avuru on 31 July 2020.  Mr. Brown joined SEPLAT in 2013 as the CFO and played a key role in the successful dual listing of the Company in 2014.  Similarly, since joining the Company, he has played significant roles in various asset acquisitions by the Company.  Mr. Brown brings to the CEO role, a deep knowledge of the Company in his 6 years as the CFO and a member of the Board.  He has strong financial, commercial and M&A experience as well as proven people skills which will be an asset as the Company embarks on the next phase of its growth plan.  Prior to joining SEPLAT, Mr. Brown was an advisor to the Company since 2010 while he was the Managing Director and head of EMEA Oil and Gas at Standard Bank Group.  During his time at the bank, he was instrumental in providing advice and deploying capital across the African continent in the Oil & Gas, Power & Infrastructure and the renewable energy sectors.   The entire board and management of seplat has announced that her pioneer Managing Director and later CEO, Mr. Austin Avuru will be retiring in July 2020 after 10 years of leading the company.   The board and management of Seplat acknowledge Mr. Avuru’s contributions and accomplishments to the growth of the company from its inception and therefore graciously looking forward to his continued service at the Board level.   According to the statement, Mr. Austin Avuru in these 10 years, led the development of a strong organization, the deployment of agile systems, processes and stakeholder relationships that allowed the organization to grow rapidly from a gross production of 22,700boepd as at December 2010 to peaks of 111,368boepd gross production as at December 2018 through major drilling campaigns and major new Oil and Gas plants development.   Also the acquisition of 45% of OML 53, post Company’s IPO of 2014, created an opportunity in partnership with NNPC, to spawn a mid-stream subsidiary, ANOH Gas Processing Company Ltd currently progressing what will ultimately be a 300MMscf/d of Gas, 22,500bdp of condensate and 1,200boepd of LPG processing Company.   The Board and Management pointed out that “All these could not have been achieved without Mr. Avuru’s leadership skills, personal dedication and hard work, at the head of the Company.  “We thank Mr. Avuru for a meritorious service, we welcome Mr. Brown and wish him every success in his upcoming new role.” 