In furtherance of their efforts to deliver sustainable community development projects in their target communities, two organisations founded and funded by the NNPC/Chevron Nigeria Ltd Joint Venture, the Ilaje Rural Development Advocacy Committee Initiative (ILRDC) and the Amalgamation of Ilaje Ugbo Coastal Communities Association (AMAICOMMA CCDC) held a groundbreaking ceremony of a Mother and Child Health Care Center at Ode Ugbo, Ilaje Local Government Area, on Saturday, November 10, 2019. Esimaje Brikinn, Esimaje Brikinn, G.M, Policy, Govt. & Public Affairs, CNL having a talk with HRH Oba Oba Fredrick Obateru Akinruntan the Olugbo of Ugbo Kingdom at the groundbreaking ceremony. Hon. Agboola Ajayi, Ondo State  Deputy Governor and Uloaku Aguwa of CNL look on.The groundbreaking event, which coincided with the tenth (10th) Coronation Anniversary of the Olugbo of UgboKingdom, His Imperial Majesty, Okoro Ajiga 1, the Oba Fredrick Obateru Akinruntan, was full of pomp and pageantry.  According to Adekunle Omomowo, Chairman Ilaje RDC “Ilaje RDC and AMAICOMMA are are doing this project in partnership  with the Ondo State Government with funding from Chevron to Improve maternal healthcare delivery in Ode-Ugbo community in Ilaje LGA of Ondo State and enhance the quality of life in the region.” Group Shot: Hon. Agboola Ajayi, Deputy Governor, Ondo State, HRH Oba Oba Fredrick Obateru Akinruntan the Olugbo of Ugbo Kingdom and Hon. Atikase Otito Thompson  Chairman Ilaje Local Government Area with the Chevron Team after the groundbreaking ceremony. Esimaje Brikinn, CNL’s General Manager, Policy Government and Public Affairs, in the company of Andrew Omomehin, General Manager Facility Engineering and Major Capital Projects; Sam Daibo, Area Manager PGPA Field Operations; Sola Adebawo Manager Communications and Tony Emegere, PGPA Superintendent, congratulated the Olugbo of Ugbo on his coronation anniversary. “On this occasion of your tenth Coronation anniversary, we at CNL wish to express our joy and support, as we pray God for your good health, long life and more rewarding years on the throne and of service to your people.” He also commended the AMAICOMMA and Ilaje RDC for progressing to the groundbreaking stage after a successful bid. He cited several achievements of the CNL-sponsored development organisations and reiterated his Company’s commitment to continue to support the communities.  “Today we break ground for the Mother and Child Health Care centre, in Ode-Ugbo here; another step in our continued supports for the Ilaje people in general and Ugbo land in particular. Previously, Ilaje RDC and AMAICOMA had held free medical outreaches, constructed forty (40) footbridges and walkways in thirty-eight (38) communities, Ilaje RDC’s Secretariat is almost completed while AMAICOMMA is at the verge of  awarding a  contract for its own secretariat. Additionally, hundreds of educational scholarships have been given to hundreds of Ilaje students,” he said. HRH Oba Oba Fredrick Obateru Akinruntan, the Olugbo of Ugbo Kingdom praying for CNL and the communities after the groundbreaking ceremony. R-L: Esimaje Brikinn, G.M, Policy, Govt. & Public Affairs, CNL; Andrew Omomehin, G.M. FE/MCP, CNL and Hon. Agboola Ajayi, Deputy Governor, Ondo State. Taiwo Oritsabinone, Chairman AMAICOMMA, while thanking NNPC and Chevron for sponsoring the project, also commended the bidding process that led to the emergence of the contractor handling the project. “The contractor that is building this project emerged after a well-thought out process in keeping with the principles of Transparency and accountability which are values of the GMoU. We are looking forward to commissioning the project within target time,” he said. The Chairman further explained that the scope of the project included, surgical wards, admissions wards, special gynecological equipment, generator house, Doctors and Nurses quarters as well as a perimeter wall.  The groundbreaking was graced by His Imperial Majesty, Okoro Ajiga 1, the Olugbo of Ugbo Kingdom Oba Fredrick Obateru Akinruntan, who thanked the NNPC/CNL Joint Venture for funding the project in the course of breaking the ground for the Health Care Center. He also praised AMAICOMMA and Ilaje RDC for coming together to jointly execute the project. Esimaje Brikinn, G.M, Policy, Govt. & Public Affairs, CNL performing the Groundbreaking ceremony while Andrew Omomehin, G.M. FE/MCP, CNL supports him. Looking on is HRH Oba Oba Fredrick Obateru Akinruntan, the Olugbo of Ugbo Kingdom.  The executive Governor of Ondo State, Arakunrin Olurotimi Akeredolu, who was represented by Hon Alfred Agboola Ajayi, Ondo State Deputy Governor, equally commended the NNPC/Chevron Joint Venture for sponsoring the project.  Other top Government functionaries present included: Director, Ministry of Environment on Community Relations, Mrs. Victoria Adetoye; Hon. Otito Atikase Ilaje LGA Chairman and top community leaders. The Olugbo of Ugbo Kingdom, HRH Oba Oba Fredrick Obateru Akinruntan performing the Groundbreaking ceremony. Looking on are: Hon. Agboola Ajayi, Deputy Governor, Ondo State; Esimaje Brikinn, G.M, Policy, Govt. & Public Affairs; CNL; Sola Adebawo, Manager Communications CNL and several traditional leaders.  The Ilaje Rural Development Advocacy Committee Initiative (IRDC)  is a  community-based organisation established under the Global Memorandum of Understanding (GMoU), between the Ilaje Communities, the Ondo State Government and the NNPC/Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) Joint Venture while the Amalgamation of Ilaje Ugbo Coastal Communities Association (AMAICCOMA) is a community-based organisation established under the Global Memorandum of Understanding (GMoU), between the Ilaje and Ugbo Coastal Communities, the Ondo State Government and the NNPC/Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL) Joint Venture.  