Consequent to the June 30th, 2020 deadline given by National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) for firms to comply with its new capital regime; it was hats off to Guinea Insurance PLC at its 61st Annual General Meeting held recently in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State as shareholders of the   underwriting firm with one voice and in one accord, rallied behind and utterly embraced its recapitalisation plan to increase its capital base to N12 billion.    With this approval, the underwriting firm hopes to increase its Authorised Share Capital from
N4,000,000,000 to N12,000,000,000 by the addition of the sum of N8,000,000,000 divided into
16,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 50 kobo each ranking in all respect pari-pasu with the existing shares of the Company. In an opinion expressed by Chairman, Board of Directors, Barrister Godson Ugochukwu at the recently concluded  meeting “the approval, as given by our perceptive shareholders, brings to the table, penetrating insights and sustainable fair shakes that will bolster our get-up-and-go capital structure reorganisation action plans.  Options available to us are either to: approach the capital market by way of a public offer, private placements, rights issue, book building process or other methods; inject funds into the Company or consider the possibility of a merger with another company operating in the general insurance business portfolio. In any case, the Board had engaged the services of professional parties and advisors to provide matter-of-fact counsel that will engender accuracy and timely decision making especially, as we are materially mindful of the stipulated time frame given by the regulator”.  Industry analysts and business associates were enthralled by the wave of applause that followed the unanimous approval also given by shareholders of Guinea Insurance PLC for the re-election of Godson Ugochukwu, as Chairman, Board of Directors; Samuel Onukwue and Simon Bolaji as Non-Executive Directors. In like manner, Ademola Abidogun’s appointment as Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer was unanimously ratified by shareholders of the Company while also acknowledging his numerous years’ experience in providing strategic and operational leadership in uniquely challenging situations in the insurance industry.  About Guinea Insurance PLC
Guinea Insurance Plc, with its headquarters in Jibowu, Lagos State, Nigeria, is a foremost risk management solution provider. The company’s products are developed to cater for the insurance needs of Nigerians of all walks of life, irrespective of their location or socio-economic class. Its Rapid Claims Payment System (RCPS) is
designed to ensure that the claims settlement process is concluded within 72 hours upon receipt of a duly Executed Discharge Voucher (EDV) from the insured.