One of Africa’s leading mattress and beddings company, Mouka, has recently introduced an improved version of its Orthopaedic mattress range, Regal and Regina to meet the physiological needs of users of the products.This was recently disclosed by the company’s Senior Brand and Innovation Manager, Jide Odelola who also hinted that the effort provides optimal capacity to address the needs of the orthopedic market segment. “We have enhanced the product architecture of our Wellbeing Regal mattresses to provide superior comfort and support for a quality night’s sleep. Manufactured using state of the art technology, which includes the combination of fiber and foam layers, the new Mouka Wellbeing Regal promises to be a delight to the our consumers. In addition, Wellbeing Regal is covered in luxury Pama fabric which is breathable and provides soothing feeling.” says Jide Odelola. According to Odelola, the orthopedic product which bears the endorsement of the National Association of Orthopedic Manual Therapists, now also has the endorsement of the Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy. Explaining further, Odelola said: “In addition to the endorsement of the Mouka Wellbeing range by the National Association of Orthopedic Manual Therapists (NAOMT), these products are now endorsed by the Nigeria Society of Physiotherapy (NSP). This is testament to health benefits that can be derived from sleeping on our Wellbeing range of products especially for those with orthopedic needs. Also speaking on the benefits of the enhanced products, Tolu Olanipekun, Mouka’s Head of Marketing said both products are not just the exclusive of users with orthopedic needs but are designed to also address the basic sleep needs of all consumers, adding that the innovation is an offshoot of Mouka’s resolve to foster among Nigerians, a quality and healthy sleep culture for overall wellbeing. “Even though our Wellbeing range have features which cater to those with orthopaedic needs, Mouka Wellbeing Regal or Regina can be used by any consumer who desires that degree of firmness in their mattress. These mattresses are designed to provide our consumers with a good night’s sleep for their total wellbeing.” she said