There are rules and regulations guiding international trade; even if the borders are opened Nigeria has an obligation to do certain things. The Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) Barrister Hassan Bello, said that there are laws to international trade, one cannot just open his border and say come and do whatever you want to do. What happens at the border will have effect on the economy of this country; will have effect on jobs amongst others”  Bello said this on Friday in Lagos during stakeholders meeting to proffer solution on the way forward in the face of the land border closure.  He added, “Nigeria is a nation of laws we respect agreement and treaties nobody has taken us to international trade court to say we have violated any trade agreement. If we keep allowing all these it means we are in deep trouble all the money we spent on Anchor borrowing on rice production will be a waste”   NSC Boss has described Nigeria as a victim of Economic Community of West Africa States (ECOWAS) protocol, instead of being the beneficiary.  Citing “Benin Republic for example is the highest importer of rice with 11 million people, then something is wrong somewhere”  He said there is need for the ECOWAS protocol to be reviewed adding that Nigeria has the poorest economy in Africa.  “Remember that the federal government just signed the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AfCFTA). And we have had very economist pushing the ECOWAS protocol”  “We have to review this protocol because Nigeria seems to be a victim rather than beneficiary. The economy of Nigeria is defeated we have the poorest economy in Africa and so there are certain things we just allow to happen and we should not”  He reiterated that the council is in support of the steps taken by the federal government even as he beckoned on the stakeholders to do same.  “It is our duty to support what custom is doing and it is also our duty to proffer solutions. So our concerns is that trading, Shippers Council is the trade facilitator just like the customs”  “So we are, have been involved in the management of the corridor, the Lagos- Abidjan corridor. We have presence at the Seme border, so we know all the issues going on we know how we have been taken advantage on and we are in support of what is going on now”  Explaining further, Bello said that the partial closure of land borders has become a federal government policy even as he added that it is not a permanent thing. He said that for a long time now, the nations have been turned into a dust bin.  “This is one of the economic activities that often come in the history of a nation. The partial closure of the land border has become a federal government policy. First of all let me say that it is not a permanent thing”  “For a long time Nigeria has been taking things lightly we are often called a big brother and at the same time we are turned to a dustbin where everything is dumped”  The NSC boss however said that the nation is looking inwards in everything not only on international trade to see what can improve the economy.  Bello said that oil which has been the major source of the nation’s economy is no longer sustainable.  “The reality affecting us now is that the source of revenue which is oil is not sustainable and it has also bee discovered that there is need for serious diversification”  “It is also very important to note that this county is doing things that people are commenting everywhere that is why the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) as the ports economic regulator has called this meeting”  According to him, “We are more concerned about what is happening at the ports after the partial closure of the land borders but I know all of those have come from different angles. The idea is for us to come and know what is happening and make suggestions on how best to go about this”  He admitted that the closure has chased some pain even as he advised that there is no gain without pain.  “You will agree with me that this has caused some pain but the pain is also necessary because there is no gain without pain. Some said some famers are smiling to the bank while others are saying that some goods are trapped at the borders”   “So everybody is coming from their own perspective. The duty of the shippers council is to look at the global picture and see that by next year February or March, when things are normalized, what can we out in place, what can the government also put in place. We have no choice than to support the federal government in what is doing. The federal government is looking at a way of improving the international trade”   “And Nigeria instead of being the highest exporter of rice just like we did in cement we will become and importer. Most importantly we cannot depend on imports alone. I know there is an import economy that employs people and also grows economy but it is about time we start export”   Bello encouraged Nigerians to look towards exportation rather than depending solely on import. “If we don’t export we perish and that means we have to have production, factories and export just like other counties are doing. As we must insist on our rights as a country in international trade”  Also speaking, the Vice President of the Association of Nigerian Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) Dr. Kayode Farinto said that the closure of border without ports being accessible would have negative effect on the country.  “There is need for customs to review their operations, review port development policies, have good road network, ensure interconnectivity in the issue of transportation as all these will aid trade in the country,” he said.  Meanwhile the Chairman Ports Consultative Council (PCC) Otunba Kunle Folarin, called for a strategic planning and implementation of outcome of the meeting, adding that there should be compliance to protocol in trade.  “Nigeria is signatory to up to 13 protocol and treaties on so many subjects but unfortunately they are not complying to it”  “The country must also strike trade alliances with counterparts in other countries to help boost our international trade,” he said.  A Customs officer, Deputy Comptroller Bello Jibo, Head Revenue, Seme, said that apart from illicit trade and security, a major reason for the border closure had to with transit trade.  According to him, transit procedure has to do with transporting goods in their original form, which unfortunately has not been so.  “Proper transit procedure must be adhered to; anything coming into Nigeria meant for Nigeria must come in its original form.  “As regard corruption, everything starts with the importer when he under-declares his goods, and is not complying with the rules; this is not good at all,” he said. 