NEG strategise on the best networks by which exporters can take full advantage of the opportunities available in this country. The National President of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Hajiya Saratu Iya-aliyu, has recommended newly inducted members into the NACCIMA Export Group (NEG), to utilize the opportunities made available by the group to enhance their competiveness in the international market.  Iya-aliyu made this known in a speech presented during the induction of new members and annual general meeting of NEG with theme: “Export Challenges in an Emerging Economy – Nigeria Peculiarities and Survival”, at Ikeja, Lagos last Tuesday.  While commending the courage of the new members’ decision to join the coveted register of NEG, she said,  “We are glad that new members chose to become a registered member of NEG, please be rest assured that you have made the right decision to become a member of one of the vibrant groups in NACCIMA”.  Also, while saluting the efforts of Barrister Kola Awe, Chairman, NEG and his executives as they pilot the affairs of the group, Iya-aliyu reminded the new members that the main objective of NEG is quite clear; to strategise on the best networks by which exporters can take full advantage of the opportunities available in this country, while also advocating for a conducive environment for these opportunities.  Some of the benefits they stand to get she said include partnership with the federal government through NACCIMA, the organisation of seminars and workshops for members to benefit, organisation of and participation at trade fairs locally and internationally, the dissemination of information to members etc.  Similarly, Ambassador Ayoola Olukanni, Director-general, NACCIMA, who represented Iya-aliyu at the event, in his good will message to the new members, tasked them to endeavour to conform to international standards to enhance their product’s chances of competing in the world market.  Olukanni said, “ for us to take advantage of the huge market out there, we have to learn, we have to have the capacity, that is why I think this programme is indeed very,   very good”.  Earlier in his welcome address, Awe made it clear to members that, “no matter how much we can do by ourselves on the national level, weather it is research or development, it will never be enough. It is the spirit of true cooperation joined with an action-oriented effort that can solve the problems that beset export development in Nigeria and Africa as a whole”.  Presentations were also made by resource persons from organisations like Cargo Defence Fund Shippers Council; Barcode G1; NIRSAL Bank; FCMB Bank and Zenith Bank, where they explained to NEG members on different ways they could access funds facilities in running their businesses.   The Captioned Photo: The National President of the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Hajiya Saratu Iya-aliyu