Mouka, the nation’s leading mattress and other bedding products manufacturer, has restated its commitment to a future couched in “quality brands, product renovation/innovation laced with investments in infrastructure and increased investments in the development of the Mouka people.” From Left to Right: Oladimeji Osingunwa, Chief Commercial Officer, Mouka Limited; Tolu Olanipekun, Head of Marketing, Mouka Limited; Femi Fapounda, Chief Operating Officer, Mouka Limited and Raymond Murphy, Chief Executive Officer, Mouka Limited at the Green Gala Night to mark the company’s 60th anniversary in Lagos on Saturday. Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the company, Mr. Raymond Murphy at the Green Gala night to round off the 60th anniversary celebrations of Mouka in Lagos last weekend, thanked the customers and stakeholders for standing by the mega brand in the last 60 years. He explained that the last 60 years had been eventful for the company in terms of job creation, value creation for stakeholders and business partners and high level of governance compliance, among others. “I thank Nigerians for remaining loyal to the Mouka brand for the last 60 years. Our vision is to move Mouka from being a good company to a great company” Murphy said. According to him, while the company pays out taxes accurately and on time, it also contributes back to society through donations and contributions to the local communities where it operates. Corroborating the view of the Managing Director, Mr. Femi Fapohunda the Chief Operating Officer explained that Mouka has continued to grow from strength to strength as others faltered and failed, adding that Mouka sees IT as a major enabler across its business. “We continually invest year after year in upgrading our manufacturing facilities and ensure that they operate to the highest local and international Health, Safety and Environmental Standards,” he said. On her part, Tolu Olanipekun, Mouka’s Head of Marketing listed unrivaled Quality, Availability, Product Warranties, and 60 years of consistency as the unique features that have sustained the smooth sail of the company over the years. Ahead of the 60th anniversary, it has been a harvest of laurels for Mouka. For instance, the foremost foam manufacturing company, won Iconic brand of the year at the Marketing World Awards which held in Accra Ghana last week. Mouka was also recognized last month by the National Employers Consultative Association (NECA) for safe work environment Earlier, the company was endorsed by the Nigeria Association of Orthopaedic Manual Therapists (NAOMT). The endorsement comes on the back of consistency in quality delivery and innovative mattress production. Mouka has also been recognized twice by the London Stock Exchange Group (LSEG), in the group’s Companies to Inspire Africa report. The company was listed in the – LSEG’s companies to Inspire Africa2019 report after it made the 2017 inaugural edition. Murphy Mouka, said the foam company had to work earnestly to consolidate its performance in the sector to make the list of companies to inspire Africa for the second consecutive edition. The foundation for Mouka was laid 60 years ago in the historic city of Kano when the scion of the Faiz Moukarim family started the Moukarim Metalwood factory to manufacture furniture and iron beds. Since then, Mouka has gone into manufacturing of foam and spring mattresses, as well as other bedding products at its three production facilities across Nigeria. The company has also developed an extensive distribution network with more than 1,000 branded sales outlets nationwide.