…As 253 Firms Bid for NNPC Insurance Broker for Oil and Non-Oil Assets The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kyari, has called on insurance brokerage firms that participated in the expression of interest to insure NNPC’s oil and non-oil assets to be wary of anyone who would promise to help them win the bid as the corporation does not operate in such a shady manner. NNPC officials conducting the public opening of bids for insurance broker for NNPC Oil/Non-Oli Assets and Liability for the Year 2020/2021. The GMD gave the warning Thursday at the NNPC Towers, Abuja, during a public opening of bids for insurance broker for NNPC Oil/Non-Oli Assets and Liability For The Year 2020/2021. “I want to put it on record today that anybody that promises you that he is going to help you win this bid is a liar, a fraud. If you know anyone who makes such claims, please let us know so that we can take appropriate action”, Kyari charged representatives of the insurance brokerage firms. He assured the firms that the evaluation and selection process would be transparent and accountable in keeping with the corporation’s Transparency, Accountability, and Performance Excellence (TAPE) agenda. He there would be a level playing field for all the bidders to guarantee the emergence of the best among them based on their respective track record and commitment to excellence. He stated that NNPC was desirous of engaging reputable and competent professional brokers that could provide unparalleled and exceptional valuation and insurance services to sustain its drive for excellence service delivery. Also speaking at the event, Group General Manager, Risk Management and Insurance Division, Mr. Mustapha Muhammed, noted that the bid opening was conducted in the full glare of representatives of the bidding companies and other stakeholders to demonstrate NNPC’s commitment to transparency and due process in all its operations. Some representatives of the bidding firms also expressed their satisfaction with the conduct of the exercise. A total of 251 firms submitted bids for insurance broker for oil assets while 253 firms submitted bids for non-oil assets.