The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Mallam Mele Kolo Kyari is billed to address participants at the 2019 edition of the Oil and Gas Masters’ Ball Africa (OGMB). The event, scheduled for Sunday November 24, at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island Lagos, will have a gathering of over 500 oil and gas magnates, national and foreign government representatives. Kyari, who is the special guest of honour at the occasion will be speaking on “Strengthening Industry Players on Effective Solutions for National Growth.” The pan-African energy conference and Grand Ball aims to expand Nigeria’s investment terrain. According to the Executive Director of the parent organisation, Mr. Oba Osoba, the conference would help to optimise the nation’s economy for growth and business tourism. He said the Oil and Gas Masters’ Ball 2019 would also identify and honour distinguished players in the energy sector with awards of excellence in appreciation of their contributions to national growth. Osoba said: “This epoch-making energy conference and Grand Ball aims to enhance business tourism in Nigeria and elevate the economy. OGMB also seeks to raise funds to finance some key humanitarian exploits in Nigerian states where oil and gas activities are carried out. “This will be done in a relaxed and absolutely fun-filled, high networking environment while continuing to give back to the society.” Oil and Gas Masters’ Ball (OGMB) is the flagship event of Oil and Gas Grand Ball Africa, an independent company dedicated to the organisation of a diverse portfolio of events and initiatives tailored to the oil and gas industry in Nigeria specifically, and Africa in general. The OGMBA conference, according to the organisers, will constitute a fulcrum of business tourism and investment possibilities. There will be an exhibition centre where partner companies, sponsors and other brands would showcase their products and services to guests. The primary objective of OGGBA is to connect industry players, stakeholders and other professionals to a dynamic network of people, insights, technical information, and ideas in a tradition that is very novel in the oil and gas sphere.