Quickteller, a leading digital payments platform, in fulfilling its promise to loyal customers, is set to take more customers on an all-expense-paid tripto Dubai to attend the Interswitch One Africa Music Fest slated to happen on Friday, November 15, 2019.The Quickteller Bestie campaign was announced few weeks ago by Quickteller and users were encouraged to participate in the promo, to stand a chance of winning an all-expense-paid trip to tour the city of Dubai with their best friends. Customers who have emerged winners from this category will not only tour the city of Dubai but will also be attending the Interswitch One Africa Music Fest and will be given the golden opportunity to party with A-list celebrities from across the globe. Wale Akanbi, Group Head, Quickteller Marketing, expressed his profound gratitude to Quickteller customers for their continuous patronage and urged them to continue to transact on the platform, stating that the opportunities are endless for Quickteller customers. He assured customers that Quicktellerwill continue to evolve to facilitate seamless payment solutions that are suitable for every consumer lifestyle. In addition to winners from the Bestie Campaign, other categories of winners were drawn from existing users, new customers, agents, Paypoint users and Interswitch staff registered on Quickteller. Akanbi also affirmed that it was of paramount importance to Quickteller to provide simple, smart payment solutions that ensure its customers have fun while using the platform. “We understand how stressful it can get while trying to make some transactions in this part of the world, which is why we have decided to make the technology available to Interwswitch to make life easier for our customers,” he said. A few months ago, Quickteller surprised six lucky customers with an all-expense paid trip to New York and London to attend the Interswitch One Africa Music Fest. A total of 30 Quickteller customers have won all-expense-paid trips and enjoyed the privilege of attending the Interswitch One Africa Music Fest in 2019.  About Quickteller Quickteller is Interswitch’s leading multichannel payments platform for consumers and businesses. It enables paymentsto be made across various channels (ATMs, Web, POS, apps, APIs, USSD and QR codes) with the use of debit or prepaid cards issued by any member bank on the Interswitch network. Quickteller services include airtime recharge, bill payments, funds transfer and remittances. There are numerous ways that access is enabled through multiple channels (such as bank Branch, ATM, Web, POS, Paypoint agent, Kiosk, Voice), and users can enjoy the full benefits of these services. Quickteller enables users to simplify everyday life by enabling individual customers and businesses to make payments easily on the go.    About Interswitch Interswitch is a leading technology-driven company focused on the digitisation of payments in Nigeria and other countries in Africa. Interswitch’s vision is to make payments a seamless part of everyday life in Africa, and its mission is to create transaction solutions that enable individuals and communities to prosper across Africa. We began in 2002 as a transaction switching and electronic payments processing business, building and managing payment infrastructure, delivering innovative payments solutions and driving transactions across Nigeria and other African markets.We provide secure solutions and services that facilitate convenience and real value for consumers, businesses, governments and other organizations, helping to reduce costs, improve operational efficiency and drive sustainable revenue growth.  About One Africa One Africa Global is a dynamic platform that focuses on promoting the understanding of Africa’s uniqueness to the world through Music, Sensitization, Global Events, Visual Arts and Partnerships. By doing so, we not only hope to empower people to have pride in themselves, but we also hope to allow them to appreciate how Africa’s legacy directly relates to their lives while building a cultural awareness that deepens their connection to the global community