GOtv Max is getting bigger and better! With the season for giving around the corner, GOtv is officially on a drive to offer its customers more value and more choice with an ever-evolving and enhanced television experience for the whole family.From Wednesday, 13th November, customers on GOtv Max package will enjoy a fresher entertainment offering when the digital terrestrial television (DTT) platform delivers four exciting brand-new channels: TNT Africa, Discovery ID, Da Vinci Kids and Cartoon Network! Chief Customer Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, Martin Mabutho said: “We are giving our GOtv customers the most value for money and even greater choice by making additional channels available on GOtv Max to deliver a more wholesome entertainment.” “Our focus is to bring our customers the best entertainment possible. We carry out a research every month to understand what they’re watching and what they’d like to watch and make the changes accordingly. These changes will not only strengthen our DTT offering but also make great entertainment accessible to more even customers.” He added. Leading kids channel Cartoon Network is sure to keep both kids and adults entertained throughout the festive season and beyond on GOtv channel 67. The channel is a gateway for non-stop fun, laughter and adventure with well-known hits such as Ben 10, Craig of the Creek, Powerpuff Girls and much more. This November, GOtv viewers can look forward to a brand-new Cartoon Network original series, Victor and Valentino, a show about two mischievous brothers who go on adventures that put them in the path of some curious creatures. The new show premieres on Wednesday, 23rd November.  In December, the holidays are sure to be a hit with new episodes from the much-loved, Teen Titans Go, a comedic look at young superheroes, showing what life is like for the teens when their capes come off.
TNT is a blockbuster filled channel with an array of film favourites tailored for the whole family. The channel is broadcast on GOtv channel 16.