Zenith Bank plc, Nigeria’s leading financial institution, has emerged as the Best Digital Bank in Nigeria in the 2019 Consumer Digital Banking Satisfaction Index Report released by Agusto and Co. The Consumer Digital Banking Satisfaction Index report highlights customers’ preferences and attitude towards digital banking platforms provided by banks in the country. The objective of the Index is to create an independent appraisal of the ease of using digital banking platforms by the Nigerian populace following increased competition by banks on digital platforms as well as the growing quest for financial inclusion using digital means. Agusto & Co., a foremost research and credit rating agency in Nigeria, explained in the report that the Index, which is in its second year, was the result of an extensive online and offline consumer survey carried out across various geopolitical zones in Nigeria, and was designed to give insight into the behavioural patterns of the respondents, drawn from both the formal and the informal sector. The output of the Index is based on information provided by respondents on the top eight banks in Nigeria by total assets as of December 31, 2018. In the survey, two banks were assigned a ‘4 Star’ rating for Consumer Digital Banking Satisfaction, with Zenith Bank scoring the highest and emerging the ‘Best Digital Bank in Nigeria’. The report further noted that the ‘4 Star’ rating assigned to Zenith Bank reflects transaction success rates, ease of use, perceived security and good troubleshooting & IT resolution on its different digital platforms.  The report also revealed that Zenith Bank has the highest transaction success rates on digital banking platforms such as mobile app, USSD (Unstructured Supplementary Service Data) or web, the bank’s respondents experienced the most ease in navigating through the digital platforms, and the bank has one of the highest numbers of customers who felt it has an excellent rating on IT issue resolution.  Zenith Bank plc is recognised as one of the most innovative financial institutions in Nigeria and was voted the most customer-focused bank in Nigeria for the retail and SME segments in the 2018 KPMG Annual Banking Industry Customer Satisfaction Survey (BICSS).  Most recently, the bank won the Best Bank in Retail Banking and the Bank of the Year at the 2019 BusinessDay Banks and Other Financial Institutions (BOFI) Awards.  The bank’s commitment to world-class service standards, products and solutions has also ensured its market dominance, as attested to by the growth in fees from electronic/digital products, which doubled to N35.3 billion in Q3 2019 from the N17.6 billion recorded in Q3 2018.  Clearly, the fact that the bank’s digital platforms and channels have been the main enablers of the massive growth in its non-interest income reflects the ease of adoption of the digital platforms by its teeming customers, and demonstrates the giant strides being made by the bank in the retail segment of the market.