The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) says the e-Dividend Committee showed that the number of shareholders enrolled on the e-DMMS platform has increased to 2,820,065 at the end of the 3rd Quarter of 2019. The acting director general of SEC, Ms Mary Uduk ,while briefing capital market journalist on Friday November, 22 2019 at Idejo Office in Lagos disclosed further that updates were given concerning the ongoing efforts at integrating the Direct Cash Settlement (DCS) and the e-DMMS mandate forms, as well as the engagement with the CBN on the inclusion of e-DMMS charges among allowable bank charges.  Uduk pointed out that other resolution that was reached at the meeting includes, “Registrars are to discontinue the practice of requesting for confirmation of bank signature during the E-DMMS process. CMOs are to display awareness campaign banners of e-DMMS at their offices and Venue of Annual General Meetings (AGM). Capital market operators should also work with the Commission to share awareness information on their social media platforms” “Market stakeholders that attended the meeting includes Chairman of SEC board Mr Olufemi Lijadu, among others that had discussions geared towards moving Nigerian market and the economy forward. She said it has suspended the regularisation deadline put in place for shareholders that opened accounts for the purchase of shares with different names. This was parts of the outcome of the third quarter Capital Market Committee (CMC) that was held in Lagos on Thursday November 21, 2019 adding that the Multiple Subscription Committee presented the status of its ongoing engagement with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and Committee of Heads of Banking Operation to display multiple accounts regularization banners in the banking halls all over the country.  The SEC DG pointed out that the commission is to engage the National Pension Commission (PENCOM) on modalities which would permit Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) to participate in Securities Lending. And to develop rules and regulations on warehouse receipts within the current legal framework among others.  Uduk stated that the Commodities Trading Ecosystem Committee, informed about the ongoing collaboration with the Standards Organization of Nigeria to review applicable standards as well as the schedule of a capacity building session for personnel of the Federal Ministries of Finance, Budget & Planning, Trade & Investment and Agriculture. The Committee is also having engagements with relevant corporates and state governments to secure their buy-in on current initiatives in the ecosystem. Going forward, the Committee is proposing to meet with the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) on the status of the Nigerian Commodities Exchange (NCX) and work with the Nigerian Incentive-Based Risk Sharing System for Agricultural Lending (NIRSAL) to develop some agricultural-based financial instruments  It was also recalled about the Commodities Round-Table held in October, 2019, with over 170 key stakeholders in attendance. This roundtable served as a platform to secure the buy-in of these stakeholders, as well as the perspective of policy makers towards improving the commodities ecosystem. As you are aware, she noted that Nigeria has a lot of potentials in the commodity space and the capital market can be used as a platform to achieve these.