….. challenging others to do what we are setting out to do in order to make rice an exportable product in Nigeria  The Dangote Group has pledged to change Nigeria’s narrative as three million tons per annum fertilizer project was among the largest granulated Urea fertilizer complex in the world under way at Lekki Free Trade Zone, Lagos  in Nigeria. This was disclosed by Dangote Group’s Executive Director, Kunt Ulvmoen, when he spoke to captains of commerce and industry during the Dangote’s Special Day, at the ongoing 33rd Lagos International Trade Fair (LITF).  Ulvmoen said Dangote had been known to be the Urea production is the essential starting point of any food sufficient.  Additional products will come out. We are aiming to have all the different fertilizer products like NPK etc. that are needed to improve the yields for the farmers. Dangote plans to adopts cement distribution strategies whereby the Dangote’s transportation and logistics facilities among others to making sure the products reach every where in the country. “Nigeria is today importing fertilizer. But we do not want only to be importing. We want to be self-sufficient and move on to massive exportation of fertilizer,” he said.  Besides fertilizer, Dangote Group is also targeting domestic self-sufficiency in sugar, rice and refined petroleum products.  Dangote Group is also investing in petroleum refinery designed to process a variety of light and medium grades of crude to produce Euro-V quality clean fuels including gasoline and diesel as well as jet fuel and polypropylene. The refinery would have capacity to refine 650,000 barrels of crude per day.  Dangote is currently laying gas pipeline from Port Harcourt to Lekki in Lagos State in a bid to ensure that the country’s natural resources are optimally exploited.  “What is very important in Nigeria is the gas. There is so much gas in the oil field that is still burnt. But this gas is very important for the production of energy in the country. And we want to make sure that there is gas in the pipeline. Nigeria needs to utilize all natural resources especially oil and gas.  READ ALSO: $12bn Dangote refinery: FG assures total support on products feedstock, offtaker ED further disclosed that Dangote pledge to change Nigeria’s narrative as a rice importing nation, to major exporter of the staple food adding that Dangote want see Nigeria as rice importing nation, rather as major exporter of the staple food.  The group pointed out that Dangote has 150,000 hectares rice farmlands in Jigawa, Kano, Kebbi, Nasarawa, Niger, Sokoto, and Zamfara States as well as 10 rice mills it was establishing in different parts of the country would deliver one million tons of rice annually  “Dangote had been known to be the number one in rice business in Nigeria until it took the decision to terminate any commodity trading that would not achieve value addition on locally.  Notwithstanding, consumers were still asking for the Dangote rice years after the group’s decision to terminate rice importation, he added.  “So what do we do? We are entering into rice farming and processing and targeting a million tons output annually.  “We are already active in the farms. We have already got some paddy rice in some silos. We are also challenging others to do what we are setting out to do in order to make rice an exportable product in Nigeria,” Ulvmoen added.   Ulvmeon, said the group’ sugar refinery in Apapa with capacity for 1.4 million tons annually and we also want to reduce the importation of raw sugar. So, we are improving our plantation for sugar cane. We want Nigeria to be as independent as possible from sugar import,” he said.  “We are creating jobs. If you want to reduce kidnapping or extremism you have to create jobs. Nobody wants to do that if he can avoid it,” he added.  In addition, he said Dangote has 29 million tons installed capacity for cement production comprising of three manufacturing plants in Obajana, Ibese and Gboko, with longer-term plans to expand its capacity to meet Nigeria’s growing demand for cement. We are working hard on the production of asphalt cement targeting roads constructions, he added.  The Group Executive Director, Halima Aliko Dangote, in her brief remarks, said the company applauds its partnership with LCCI, which she said, has been growing over the years.  She said we at Dangote Company acknowledge Nigerians as our strong tower of success adding that without Nigerians we (Dangote Company) can do nothing.  Grp Ed further said any where we are going, we go with Nigeria name, and we continue to do our best for the country, Nigeria.  “The bond is even more significant as one of own; Mr. Knut Ulvmoen is one of the Deputy Presidents of the Chamber. He has been a very active member of the Chamber.” READ ALSO: Dangote Sugar, Savannah Sugar plan merger In his earlier welcome address, the President of the LCCI, Babatunde Paul Ruwase, described the Dangote Group as a critical enabler in connecting businesses across Africa and deepen manufacturing capacity to generate employment, prevent capital flight and provide locally produced goods for the continent. \ “There is no home in Nigeria that lacks a Dangote product that are very essential to our daily lives,”  Ruwase said the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry is proud to be associated with the Dangote Group and will continue to support the group in its current and future endeavours.  He applauds the group saying “the recent Dangote Cement ‘Bag of Goodies’ promo… I am aware that this laudable promotion programme is empowering people and changing many lives for better”