The Nigerian Shippers’ Council has waded into the litany of  complaints arising from the gridlock as part of ongoing efforts to mitigate the effects and reduce the extra cost  of the perennial traffic gridlock in Apapa on shippers.The Federal Government through the Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Presidential Enabling Business Environment Committee, PEBEC, and the foreign shipping lines operating in Nigeria now have an agreement to increase storage days of cargoes from 5 days to 12. The agreement will further reduce the amount of demurrage paid by importers on cargoes that stay longer than necessary in the ports. Recall that Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council, PEBEC, and foreign shipping firms operating in Nigeria recently met to negotiate demurrage on cargoes occasioned by the Apapa traffic gridlock. Similarly, Chairman of the Presidential Task Team on the Restoration of Law and Order on the Apapa Port Access; Mr  Kayode Opeifa  had also acknowledged recently  that the government is aware of the fact  that shippers are incurring extra cost due to the long stay of their goods in the ports. He agreed that the long stay of these goods was occasioned by the traffic gridlock, partly due to the bad port access roads. He  had said at that time that: “What I can tell is that the shipping companies met with members of PEBEC at the office of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council to negotiate demurrage on cargoes, it is a work in progress meeting. But last weekend, the Executive Secretary of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Mr. Hassan Bello, said that the shipping companies have agreed to increase the number of free storage days from five to 12 days. He also said that the Council along with PEBEC has concluded plans to meet again over the issue to fine tune the modalities for implementation. Commenting on the matter, Mr. Hassan Bello said he could not talk much on the matter, adding that PEBEC met again with the representatives of the shipping companies last week and held discussion with them on the issue.