Fidelity Private Banking Division organized an exclusive advisory forum at The Café in the Private Banking Suite, Ikoyi. The aim was to provide sufficient information and guidance for select clients who wish to have their children study abroad.  In her opening remarkes, the Divisional Head, Private Banking, Fidelity Bank Plc, Chioma Nwankwo noted that “Studying abroad is becoming more popular among Nigerian students as the country itself continues to pursue integration into the international landscape. The demand for professionals with global experience is rapidly increasing amongst local employers. Our Private Bank has therefore partnered with Quelu Advising Center over an interactive education advisory session to better equip our high net worth and ultra-high net worth clients for future engagements in this respect”.  Quelu Educational Center is an advisory company operating under Shorelight group of companies working with top-tier universities to offer services to prospective students who wish to study abroad. The forum which provided sufficient information and guidelines extensively covered;  Guests were treated to a scrumptious lunch afterwards.  The session is one of the fora that has been put together by the Division which targets the younger generation with necessary steps toward achieving a greater future as wealth is preserved from one generation to another. Directorate Head, Corporate Bank, Obaro Odeghe presenting a plaque to the Managing Director, Quelu Konsult, Mrs. Margaret Anyigbo at the recently concluded Fidelity Private Banking Education Advisory Forum in Lagos. L- R: Managing Director, Lady Maker, Mrs. Ify Azubuike; Divisional Head, Private Banking, Fidelity Bank, Mrs. Chioma Nwankwo; and President/CEO, Anabel Group, Dr. Nicholas Okoye; at the recently concluded Fidelity Private Banking Education Advisory Forum  Divisional Head, Fidelity Private Banking; Mrs. Chioma Nwankwo with the Managing Director, Quelu Konsult Mrs. Margeret Anyigbo at the recently concluded Fidelity Private Banking Education Advisory Forum  Divisional Head, Private Banking Fidelity Bank Plc, Chioma Nwankwo with, Mrs. Margeret Anyigbo and  Anne-Marie Abebe of Nubi Education, UK, the facilitators of the Fidelity Private Banking Education Advisory Forum. 