…offers superior customer experience  MTN Nigeria Communications Plc has launched 4G+ in Lagos, Abuja and Port-Harcourt. The enhanced serviceis aimed at delivering a premium experiencetomore people across the country. MTN 4G+ runs on 4G LTE Advanced Technologyusing a combination ofthe recently acquired 800 MHz spectrum and 2600 MHz. The added spectrum and advanced technology extend the reach and capacity of MTN’sdata network in Nigeria and enables speeds of up to 200 Mbps. This means a 30-minute HD video could take aslittle asthree minutes to download on 4G+, while the same video would take around eight minutes to download on standard 4G. The service is immediatly available andwill deliver much higher broadband speeds, a more consistent connection and significant improvement in indoor coverage. Commenting on the new serviceMazen Mroue, Chief Operating Officer, MTN Nigeria said“It’s about the customer. We put the customer at the heart of everything that we do.” Noting that the launch of 4G+ represents a natural evolution from MTN’s already fast and reliable 4G network and further demonstratesthe company’scommitment tocontinuedinvestment in technology that caters to the present and future needs of its customers and country. “As MTN, we believe that everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected life. With this enhancement, our customers in covered locations can expect faster downloads anduploads, andbetter browsing and streaming experiences. The successful launch of our 4G+ network is a momentous occasion, whichadvances our questto provide world-class serviceto our customers,” he concluded. To activate the service and enjoy a new digital experience, customers need an MTN Standard 4G SIM (upgrades available in stores nationwide)and a compatible device. For more information, visit: www.mtnonline.com  About MTN Nigeria MTN Nigeria is one of Africa’s largest provider of communications services, connecting over 58 million people in communities across the country with each other and the world.  Guided by a vision to lead the delivery of a bold new digital world, MTN Nigeria’s leadership position in coverage, capacity and innovation has remained constant, since its launch in 2001. MTN Nigeria is part of the MTN Group – a leading emerging market operator, connecting more than 200 million subscribers in 21 countries in Africa and the Middle East.