The Managing Director of Midwestern Oil and Gas Company, Mr. Charles Odita, has advised Nigerian youths to utilise every available opportunity to better their lives and to be economically independent especially now that the opportunity for white collar jobs is slimmer.Odita gave the advice yesterday during the presentation of starter-packs to 26 youths who successfully completed the two-year skills acquisition training organised as part of the company’s empowerment and corporate responsibility, in Kwale, Ndokwa West Local Government Area, Delta State. He stressed the company’s commitment to the development of its host communities, through the establishment of functional infrastructure and human capacity enhancement and enterprise, aside direct employment of the indigenes. Several amenities provided by the indigenous oil and company for the three host communities in the area, including two health centres and blocks of classrooms in several primary schools in the communities, were also commissioned. The managing director, who was also the chairman of the starter-pack and merit award presentation ceremony, noted that Midwestern had embarked on the training scheme in order to afford determined but unemployed youths in its host communities “the opportunity to lift themselves out of poverty to another level.” Odita however said that it was disheartening that some past beneficiaries had abandoned their trade as soon as they received the equipment and little capital from the company to start small businesses of their own. He further said that the company had subsequently identified and begun rewarding those who had “done very well” with their starter-packs and seed capital so as to encourage other recipients, in addition to strictly monitoring the activities of the beneficiaries to check abuses. According to the excerpts from the company, the Head, Community Affairs of the company, Mr. Williams Eboh, similarly lamented the fact that the execution and inauguration of several community projects initiated by Midwestern Oil and Gas were often hampered by delay in decision making and appropriate response from the three Kwale host communities. He therefore advised the community leaders and representatives to “carry your people along” so that they would know that delay in proper take-off of certain projects were not caused by the company. Eboh warned that the current year’s Midwestern scholarship scheme might also be forced to be put off till the following year, simply because the communities have been unable to send to the company a final list of qualified beneficiaries from the different areas. The categories of trainees who received the Midwestern starter-packs and seed capital include fashion designers, hair dressers, building material traders as well as welding and fabrication artisans. Some of the beneficiaries who spoke with media expressed happiness at the opportunity to start a business of their own with prospects for expansion within the shortest possible time. While indigene, Mr. Enuma Ogochukwu, thanked the company for the two-year training in building materials marketing, Miss Onyeka Oweta and Miss Jennifer Utuodoi said they looked forward to employing between two and five apprentices within the next year.   Three past beneficiaries also received awards as role models of the Midwestern empowerment scheme ranging from brand new sewing machines to electric hair-driers. Among the projects commissioned yesterday were the renovated Umusam-Ogbe Community health centre and Ogbeani Obi-Ogwa town hall. Others were the Ogbea-Ani health centre/staff quarters and blocks of six and three classrooms in Azunze Primary School, Umusadege-Ogbe and Lagos-Ogbe Primary School, Ogbe-Ani, respectively. Furthermore, Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has commended Midwestern Oil and Gas (MWOG) for a remarkable contribution to the growth of its host communities through its many Corporate Social Responsibility programmes. Okowa, who made the remark during the inauguration of the Amenity ward in Kwale General Hospital and that of the rehabilitated Akala street, as well as the award of 40 scholarships to students, noted that Midwestern Oil and Gas, has over the years been a partner in the development of its host communities. Represented by his Commissioner for Information, Mr. Patrick Ukah, Okowa remarked that  consistently, the oil company had been showing acts of commendable corporate social responsibility. He further promised that as a result of the company’s CSR record, there would be continued partnership with government just as government would ensure that its operations and activities in the state enjoy maximum protection. “We are happy to say that Midwestern Oil and Gas has continued to be responsible in joining hands with government to develop its host communities. And I can therefore assure them that they will never regret coming to Kwale for their exploration activities,” Okowa said.  Earlier in his address, the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the company, Mr. Charles Oditah,  said the company  has established a tradition of partnering the communities in its operation area by assisting in various areas of need like provision of road networks,  provision of transformers to boost electricity supply, provision of solar-powered boreholes, building of and equipping blocks of classrooms, offer of scholarships, as well as training youths in various skill acquisition schemes, among others. He further noted that the 20-bed Amenity ward at the Kwale General Hospital which was commissioned last Monday to provide additional comfort and privacy to patients “was constructed and fully equipped by the Midwestern JV as part of its contribution to improving health care facilities and economic development of the people of our host communities. In the same vein, we undertook the full rehabilitation of the Akala Road”, adding that, “we also have many other ongoing projects that we will also commission in a couple of months.”  Oditah who tasked the host communities to always co-operate with the company by ensuring that they also mount surveillance on the safety of oil facilities in the area to forestall vandalism, crude theft and all such vices that affect profitable production, informed that the scholarship scheme offered to the students drawn from both the community and across the state carries annual price of N150,000 to aid in the tuition, books and academic expenses of beneficiaries  