 He said that the report speaks on the company’s investment in different areas, which include youth and women empowerment, health, environment, human capacity building and education. Speaking on the business aspect of the report, Mr Eze said that “Between 2012 and 2018 NBC invested over a billion dollars in the local economy and is poised to invest more in expansion and upgrade of our facilities across the country to boost production capacity and create employment for Nigerians.” He also revealed that the company was already diversifying its energy sources, which was in line with the Coca-Cola Hellenic Bottling Company (CCHBC) 2025 sustainability goal of having a greater percentage of its energy coming from renewable and clean energy sources. “We are already matching this intent with the necessary actions and today, most of our plants are already being powered by renewable energy sources. For example, with our combined heat and power plant, we have been able to reduce our carbon foot print drastically,” he said.The Public Affairs and Communications Director restated NBC’s commitment to carrying out all its business activities with integrity and respect for society and environment, adding that the company has invested millions of dollars in installing fully functional effluent treatment plant technology in its plants to ensure the protection of water resource and that safe water is recycled back into the environment. Also speaking at the evnt, the Sustainability and Community Affairs Manager of NBC, Ms. Ifeoma Okoye said: “As a responsible company, we ensure that our sustainability efforts are aligned with local as well as international standards. NBC has been setting annual improvement targets since 2004 and we are working towards the Group’s ambitious 2025 sustainability goals.” Speaking in the same vein, the Public Affairs and Communications Manager of Coca-Cola Nigeria Limited, Mrs. Nwamaka Onyemelukwe, reiterated Coca-Cola System’s commitment to ridding the environment of plastic waste, through a global initiative tagged ‘World Without Waste’. According to her, the program is a comprehensive, multi-year plan that directly addresses issues regarding packaging with a goal to collect and recycle the equivalent of every bottle or can sold by 2030. She further revealed that the Safe Birth Initiative of the Coca-Cola Company was addressing the challenge of infant and maternal mortality in Nigeria.