The company’s track records on the African continent from the humble beginnings, dated back to 1986 when a number of South African media companies formed Africa’s first pay TV channel know as M-Net was born and from the small M-Net grew much faster than anticipated to become MultiChoice Africa of today. Four years down the lines, in 1990 specifically, the company hit it first milestone or historical journey to become the first television company to be listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and in 1995, after five years as a quoted company on the Exchange. The company strived again to become the first to used satellite transmission to reach more than 20 African countries with an analogue service. And in that same 1995, MultiChoice launched its premium DStv bouquet on a newly-constructed digital platform, which has since grown to cover nearly 50 countries in Africa and adjacent Indian Ocean islands, offering a range of pay-television services with a variety of language options and excellent quality viewing.  MultiChoice Africa is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Naspers Group, registered in Mauritius brings top notch digital television captivating content to over 50 countries on the African continent, containing channels from Africa, America, China, India, Asia and Europe, etc.  For over two decades MultiChoice Africa Limited (MultiChoice Africa) has been proudly delivering the best in television entertainment, providing top quality customer service and uplifting local communities across Africa continent.   MultiChoice Africa was one of the first pay-TV digital satellite broadcasters outside of the United States and the size and complexity of its satellite network rivaled the best in the world. Today it is the leading multichannel and multiplatform digital television operator across the African continent. As we continue to expand our footprint and introduce new technologies, we’re offering more choice to more people every day.   Our dynamic platform offers a range of bouquets built around compelling news, premium movies, documentaries and sports channels, enabling subscribers from all market segments to enjoy the very best home television experience.   MultiChoice has portfolio services including DStv Premium, DStv Compact +, DStv Compact, DStv Family and DStv Access, as well as numerous channels via GOtv and GOtv Plus that offers packages allowing subscribers flexibility in pricing and choice. In addition, specialist bouquets and channels for Indian, French, Chinese and Portuguese subscribers offer a range of exciting content that caters specifically to these cultural and language markets.   MultiChoice is at the forefront of technology to keeps channels remain in the best quality and consistently deliver new and exciting programming position that enhances subscriber viewing pleasure. We are continually expanding this offering, moving towards enabling subscribers to stream online and download video content, view on demand videos, watch high definition (HD) programming and experience mobile television.  In this way, we are staying at the forefront of technology and are using it to benefit subscribers and to enhance their experience with us.  By the launch of the PVR decoder, DStv-on-Demand services and High Definition channels, as well as the launch of our GOtv digital platform in Africa in 2011, have kept our operations at the cutting-edge of technology. For instance, GOtv is a pay television offering on digital terrestrial television (DTT) and is Africa’s first commercial operation using the advanced DVB-T2 digital standard.   Another exciting innovation was DStv Mobile, launched in 2011 which is taking Africa into the innovative and exciting realm of mobile television. Mobile television is accessible via 3G streaming (3G) and Digital Video Broadcast Handheld Technology (DVB-H). Many of our viewers are not aware of the vast machinery that delivers DStv to them, and rightfully so – our business is providing top quality entertainment, while theirs is to enjoy the experience Putting new technology to good use is a challenge we relish.   MultiChoice Africa is committed to partnering with local entrepreneurs, governments and broadcasters across Africa continent. We recognise that our ongoing success on the continent is hugely dependent on the talent and creativity of our employees and partners alike. Significant progress has been made in the African broadcasting industry in recent years, with world class technology and increased industry skills and knowledge delivering vastly improved communication to populations that are hungry for information.  At the same time, growth in the industry has led to renewed scrutiny from regulatory bodies, while economic challenges continue to put pressure on many of the people living in these countries. As a business operating in this dynamic industry, we believe strongly in working together with all stakeholders to cultivate an enabling environment, foster positive relationships and offer assistance to local governments and communities wherever possible. Changes in our industry are challenging us to think differently, innovate and continually look for new ways in which to entertain our subscribers and engage with stakeholders.   Our strong local partnerships have enabled the company to operate with an understanding of, and respect for, the many different cultures found on this diverse continent. We are proud of our ability to tailor our offerings to suit local needs while maintaining the highest levels of service and product quality.  As a business operating on the African continent, MultiChoice Africa is very conscious of its corporate social responsibility towards society it operating and is committed to the sustainable social development. MultiChoice Africa understands that its success depends on the health and growth of the communities within which we operate.  By running a profitable business, the business is able to make a significant contribution to the African economy, not only through the employment of local people and the payment of taxes to local governments, but also through significant investment in Corporate Social Investment (CSI) programmes, with a particular focus on education.   Our approach to CSI is one of leveraging and making the best use of the assets we have. For us that means using our platform of top class technology and a wide range of channels to empower others, nurture talent, harness skills and expand opportunities.   In achieving our goals, we believe strongly in the power of partnerships and work closely together with a number of partners to ensure that we provide the most relevant and efficient support to those who need it. Such partnerships are crucial in driving effective development and making a positive impact.   The birth of the first MultiChoice Resource Centre (MRC) in Nigeria in 2004 marked the beginning of an invigorating journey of development, education and enlightenment. Over the last six years, the programme has grown substantially, with more than 1388 MRCs being established across Africa in 26 of the countries in which we operate.  Now our flagship CSI project, the MRC programme plays an important role in providing access to information to mainly rural schools, thereby helping to bridge the digital divide between schools with access to information and those without.  The programme provides participating schools with resources such as televisions, VCRs/DVD-Rs, digital satellite decoders and the DStv Education bouquet. The bouquet comprises premium educational channels: National Geographic, Discovery Channel, History Channel, BBC Knowledge, BBC World, Nat Geo Wild, Animal Planet and Mindset Learn. Together these channels are able to combine the sensory experience of television with premium global content to support the teaching and learning process.   We partner with local communities and governments to establish resource centres in the areas that need it most. Teacher support is provided in specialised training sessions, delivered by external consultants and service providers, focusing on integrating these resources into lessons, to enhance learning in a practical way for teacher and student alike.   According to the reports excerpts from youtube stated that the supports sickle cell foundation Nigeria is the only well-established non-governmental organization dedicated to managing the second cell disorder in Nigeria as well as research and exploration of ways lighten the burden.  Multichoice thinks it’s important for us that we commit to something that can actually make a difference locally. Sometimes you want to make sure that people who have sickle cell have free from pain because that’s the hallmark of the condition and to find out more about the sickle cell foundation log onto www.koco.com for your contributions to the foundation and public donations can be done through the following means    Multichoice’s reports excerpts from youtube also disclosed that the multiChoice is proud to present Africa’s True Heroes meet a new braheem win of the 2015 Multichoice Creative Teachers Award. When we teach interaction is very key it keeps your Lenna active. The company talks about the most charges are Center we can bring technology into education; it’s a user-friendly instructional resource which is up today in terms of the 20th century. The use of technology, definitely gives our students a head start, it gives them opportunity to compete with the developed countries. It’s technologically confidence young person multichoice celebrates the people who rise up and make a positive impact people like a new, whose talent and ability have inspired our continent simple times are recognized through each of us he helps us become better people as a free man   Proudly, MultiChoice Africa has made a major investment in supporting the development of open, democratic and progressive societies by encouraging and recognising excellence in African journalism through its annual partnership with the CNN MultiChoice African Journalist of the Year Awards. The awards aim to reinforce the importance of the role of journalism in Africa’s development and to reward and recognise journalistic talent across all media disciplines. RAD ALSO: Asu wins Ecobank Economic & Business Award at CNN MultiChoice African Journalist Awards 2015 The Award was instituted in 2005, since then MultiChoice has partnering with CNN International in co-hosting the Awards. The event has grown to become truly pan-African, acknowledged as the premier accolade for excellence in journalism on the continent. The awards recognise the crucial contribution of journalists to enabling socioeconomic progress in a region where they must contend with difficult operating environments and under-resourced newsrooms. They pay tribute to the many ordinary men and women who record Africa’s history under challenging conditions, and they showcase budding future winners of this and other awards on the continent and beyond.  Here comes our new born baby ‘The Multichoice Talent Factory (MTF) Academy’  which is a tailored 12-month training programme facilitated at regional academies based in Kenya, Nigeria and Zambia, headed by industry experts as Academy Directors. Designed to Works hand-in-hand with local creative organisations, regulatory and government where we operate across the continent. MultiChoice uses its people, facilities and network to provide young emerging filmmakers with the skills, knowledge, experience and qualifications to help the MTF graduates launch a successful career within the creative industry.  MultiChoice Africa’s legacy is to showcase Africa’s diversity and rich culture through the continent’s deep-rooted storytelling history. The African entertainment industry is at the core of who we are and what we do. MultiChoice Africa recognises the critical role we can play in building and strengthening the creative industries across Africa – our 17 local M-Net channels are available in a variety of regional languages, telling original African stories. As a business born and bred in Africa, MultiChoice has a long-term commitment to making a socio-economic difference, playing a key role – alongside government, various stakeholders, businesses and civil society – in growing Africa’s creative industries into vibrant, economic hubs.  The MultiChoice Talent Factory (MTF) is a shared-value initiative that provides a platform for the creative industries to develop their talent and engage with one another through their shared passions. This initiative has a multi-tiered approach, namely; the MTF Portal, the MTF Academies and MTF Industry Masterclasses.  Our education programme is designed to develop emerging TV and film talent in Africa, through an accredited 12-month immersion programme including both theory and hands-on experience in cinematography, editing, audio production and storytelling. It is the first academy of its kind, spanning three regions and 13 countries across Africa. We have gone pass sixty deserving young, talented candidates who want to work —and innovate — in film and television production get the chance to hone their skills alongside industry greats. This year-long funded programme is offered through accredited regional MTF Academies based in Kenya (for East Africa), Nigeria (for West Africa) and Zambia (for Southern Africa) in partnership with respected local academic institutions.  Our interactive on-line portal is there to profiling and connecting Africa’s film industry, bringing talent and opportunities together on one platform, in one place. The pan-African portal you said was designed specifically to meet the needs of a growing African film industry and offers open access to film creative across Africa to showcase their talent, access opportunities, stay up to date with industry news and expand their industry network across Africa and beyond.  Are you looking to connect with other creatives across Africa? Register today and have exclusive online access to showcase your skills and talent, connect, scout for skills and meet other creatives. Sign up and create your profile here.  Our MTF Masterclasses are “Best in Class” workshops which are open to industry professionals and facilitated by industry experts. The Masterclasses aim to further develop the technical skills of industry creatives in cinematography, audio and storytelling in order to improve the quality of local productions. Since launching in January 2019, the MTF Masterclasses have enjoyed the support of international industry partners including Dolby Laboratories and FOX Portugal. To date we have presented masterclasses in Angola, Kenya, Ghana, Malawi, Mozambique, Nigeria, Tanzania, Uganda, Namibia, Botswana, Ethiopia and Zambia, with more to come.  Through the MTF, MultiChoice Africa will cement its commitment to enriching lives by developing the art of inspired local storytelling and story making while simultaneously growing local content on our DStv and GOtv platforms and ultimately continue showcasing Africa’s rich cultural heritage and diversity across our local channels including SuperSport, M-Net, Africa Magic, Maisha Magic East, Maisha Magic Bongo and Zambezi Magic.  No wonders in a message by mr Adewunmi Ogunsanya, Chairman of MultiChoice Nigeria that as sub-Saharan Africa’s second-largest economy, the continent’s biggest oil producer and Africa’s most populous country, Nigeria is an extremely important market for MultiChoice. He further noted that through the MultiChoice Nigeria joint venture, we are fully committed to helping drive positive change in this fast growing economy, and to providing world class services to our large and rapidly growing subscriber base.   The Chairman proudly said that “To date, our biggest accomplishments are the solid relationships we have managed to forge with our many partners and stakeholders across the country. Federal, State and Local Government, the regulators, the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) and the Nigerian Copyrights Commission (NCC), and our broadcaster partners are among the most valued of these. We continue to work closely with them to develop policies, legislation and regulations that provide an enabling environment and contribute to the growth and development of the broadcasting, and especially pay television, industry in Nigeria.   “We aim to continue enriching the lives of its citizens through our world class Pay -TV service, our development of local production industries and dealerships, and our support for education in Nigeria.   Amehnews recall that MultiChoice was the first to introduce pay television on the continent and, in keeping with our spirit of innovation and creativity, we were also the first in Nigeria to launch a digital dual-view decoder; the first to commission a fully “made for Africa” African channel (AfricaMagic); the first to commission a Direct-to-Home (DTH) television uplink facility in Nigeria; and the first to establish a national call centre to attend to subscriber enquiries or issues.   “Rapid expansion and a steadfast belief in a bright future for our business in Nigeria have ensured that we continue to invest significantly, not only in our people and operations, but also in the broader Nigerian economy and its communities.”   “The company has invested more than N13 billion (US$100 million) in Nigerian content since our entry into the market in 1994. Today, we directly employ more than 300 Nigerians to deliver our products and services, and have created many more indirect jobs along the value chain, including providing employment for more than 1 000 Nigerians through our Enterprise Development initiatives.   “In order to continually improve our service offering, we invest in our operations and infrastructure on an ongoing basis. With this in mind, we have made substantial investments in new products, services, payment methods, content and technologies. In addition, where possible we buy the properties that host our offices.