…Partners REDmoney to Host IFN Nigeria Forum The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), in partnership with REDmoney Group, is set to hold the inaugural edition of the IFN Nigeria Forum themed, “Harnessing the Islamic Finance Sector for Infrastructure Development and Economic Growth”, on Tuesday, June 18, 2019, at the Eko Hotels and Suites, Lagos. The forum is aimed at promoting the growth and development of the Nigerian Islamic Finance industry and facilitate the growth of a new asset class in the capital market.  The IFN Nigeria Forum 2019 which will be headlined by Ms Mary Uduk, Acting Director-General, Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), will bring together a stellar line-up of speakers, comprising senior industry players, decision makers, regulators and investors, to exchange their views and experiences on opportunities in the Nigerian Islamic finance market. It will feature a mix of panel sessions, onstage interviews and interactive sessions on a number of themes in Islamic finance including, Corporate Financing and Capital Raising in Nigeria.  Other speakers confirmed for the event include Ms Patience Oniha, Director-General, Debt Management Office of Nigeria; Hajia Aisha Dahir-Umar, Acting Director-General, National Pension Commission; Mr Jude Chiemeka, Divisional Head, Trading Business, NSE; Hajara Adeola, Managing Director/CEO, Lotus Capital; Adeola Sunmola, Partner, Udo Udoma & Belo Osagie and Oluseun Olatidoye, Head, Debt Capital Markets, FBNQuest Merchant Bank.  Speaking about the forum, Mr Jude Chiemeka, Head, Trading Business Division, NSE, said that “Islamic assets are gaining momentum as an alternative investment avenue in Nigeria and globally. The IFN Nigeria Forum affirms our commitment to stimulating non-interest capital market products innovation. It will offer us the opportunity to deepen our engagement with our stakeholder. It will also provide us with important insights that will enable us to take a leap forward in the development of innovative and practical solutions to propel the Islamic capital market which will aid Nigeria in achieving its Sustainable Development Agenda.  IFN Nigeria Forum is the first stop in the inaugural three-part IFN African Roadshow 2019. After the IFN forum in Nigeria, the roadshow will continue in Kenya and South Africa, two of the most likely markets to see Shariah-compliant financing flourish in the coming years. About THE NSE The Nigerian Stock Exchange, a company limited by guarantee, services the largest economy in Africa and is championing the development of Africa’s financial markets. The Exchange offers listing and trading services, licensing services, market data solutions, ancillary technology services, and more. The Nigerian Stock Exchange continues to evolve to meet the needs of its valued customers, and to achieve the highest level of competitiveness. It is an open, professional and vibrant exchange, and the Entrepreneurial Growth hub of Africa. The Nigerian Stock Exchange aspires to be Africa’s foremost securities exchange, connecting Nigeria, with the rest of Africa and the world. About REDmoney Group REDmoney Group is the foremost global provider of specialized Islamic financial media services across three core divisions of events and publishing. Established in 2004, the firm has offices in Dubai and Kuala Lumpur: offering an unrivalled multi-channel service across the full spectrum of the global financial markets.  REDmoney Group covers the full range of global markets from emerging Islamic economies across Africa and Asia to industry leaders such as Malaysia and the GCC along with developed nations in Europe and the Americas seeking to enter the sector. The company offers unequalled access to the elite of the industry, with relationships built up over a decade of trusted communication with market leaders to provide a detailed network covering every aspect of Islamic financial services