If you remember that famous line from the award-winning television commercial released last year by Union Bank, then you’ll be excited to learn that spin-offs have been released as part of a follow-up campaign. This should come as no surprise, after the short film emerged the most watched Nigerian ad on YouTube in 2018!  This time, the TV and radio ads follow the lives of the main characters from the original commercial – the photographer, ‘keke’ driver, and the mother -who represent relatable characters in our daily lives. Union Bank salutes their focus, tenacity and drive as they hustle and grind to make ends meet in Nigeria of today.  The ‘grind’ is something we all identify with. Every day, it’s a struggle to rise above the challenges of erratic power supply, insecurity, bad roads, corruption and poor governance.  To make things even worse, the average Nigerian is unable to access loans or credit facilities that could help them break out of the vicious cycle. Loans seem to be reserved for the already well-to-do who can provide collateral to back their applications, and for salaried workers who can show pay slips as proof of income.However, a recent Future of Work report, states that only 25% of Nigeria’s 85 million workforce are in paid employment. How do the other 75% support their hustle?  At Union Bank, we believe lack of credit facilities should not be on the list of frustrations Nigerians face. We believe that everyone – yes, everyone – deserves to have a credit ‘lifeline’.  And that’s why our loans are not limited to salary earners alone; because we truly want to support the grind of every day Nigerians struggling to keep their heads above water in these tough times.  So, whether you’re that guy trying to grow his transportation business to the point where he can propose to his boo and support a family; or that young mother giving her all to take care of her children, or even that upcoming photographer hustling to make ends meet, with Union Bank, that business no go spoil for your hand.  We have a loan for everyone. Talk to us about the best option for you.  For more details,visitwww.unionbankng.com/loans/ or call 01 271 6816. 