The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has stated that it would take decisive action against any staff of the agency who connived with drug traffickers in baggage tagging across airports in the country This is just as the agency said that those found guilty would be dealt with in accordance with the law. The General Manager Public Affairs FAAN, Mrs Henrietta Yakubu, who disclosed this to aviation journalists in Lagos, said the report of the special task force established by the Managing Director of FAAN, Capt. Hamisu Yadudu to investigate the involvement of FAAN staff would determine the punishment to be meted out based on their involvement. Yakubu said the agency was disturbed by allegation against some staff of the agency of their involvement in Zanab Aliyu issue at the Mallam Aminu Kano International Airport, adding that the task force will submit its report soon. She explained that the Kano Airport incident has awaken FAAN to tighten security which has led to the agency evolving means of curtailing future occurrence. Yakubu stated that FAAN had moved the operation of unaccompanied luggage to the newly created cargo section for proper tagging while comprehensive profiling of background passengers and baggage handlers have commenced. The General Manager Public Affairs disclosed that six sniffer dogs have also been deployed to the Kano airport, while more metal walk through screening detectors from entrance to terminal before boarding the aircraft have been installed. She informed that the action was to ensure that no passenger pass through the airport with drug, adding that the agency has intensified surveillance on baggage handlings under aviation security supervision. Mrs Yakubu explained that there has been an improvement of Close Circuit Television at the single interface desk to capture the area adding that FAAN was working hand in hand with NDLEA. The FAAN image maker further explained that it was the responsibility of the NDLEA to install drug detecting machines at airports not FAAN as stated by some individuals. According to her, the Federal government has made recommendation for additional sophisticated scanners to be brought in to the country to complement the existing ones, stressing that it will be installed as soon as it arrived and drugs will be detected. She advised passengers not to assist anyone to carry any bag at the airport and to get to the airport two hours before boarding to avoid unnecessary pressure Yakubu said that all the agencies were working together for the good of the country, expressing delight that the Ease of Doing Business has assisted in decongesting the terminal and brought sanity. 