The Forum’s theme: “Developing Nigeria’s Tech Ecosystem; Imperative for Improving Local Content” according to the initiator- the Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC) – is in line with the Commission’s commitment to promoting ICT innovation and investment opportunities and facilitating strategic collaboration and partnership. The forum presents a unique opportunity for NCC to bring together key players/actors in the Nigerian tech-ecosystem to deliberate and suggest policy, framework/strategy that could further develop the sector, thereby serving as a catalyst for improving local content in ICT/Telecommunication sector. The collaborative stakeholder’s meeting is a two-day event. The first day is to identify the gaps in the ICT/Telecoms sector, and further strengthen the collaboration between stakeholders and the Commission. The second day will have a breakout session to discuss possible solution to the identified gaps. The Executive Vice Chairman of NCC, Prof. Umar Danbatta, is expected to address the gathering comprising of stakeholders drawn from the Nigerian Tech ecosystem; Mobile Network Operators (MNOs) Internet Service Providers (ISPs) and Tech hubs. Professional Associations in the ICT sector, Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM), Consumer Advocacy Group and the financial sector will also be in attendance. A lead paper presentation on the theme “Developing Nigeria’s Tech Ecosystem; Imperative for Improving Local Content” would be delivered by Ms. Funke Opeke, CEO, Main One. Other stakeholders participating in the Forum have been slated as panelists in a discourse focused on: “Digital Skills Imperative for Retooling National Workforce and Developing Capacities for Future Work, Innovation Hubs as the Fulcrum of Local Content Development, Digital Inclusion, Employment and National Survivability”. Further discussion will also take place on the topic: “Legislative and Government Support for Enhancing Tech Eco System in Nigeria.” The panelists for the three segments include: Prof. Francis Idachaba, Director of Academic planning, Covenant University Ota, Ogun State, Prof. G. Aderounmu, Dean Faculty of Technology, Obafemi Awolowo University Ile-Ife, Osun State and Mrs. Yetunde Akinloye, Director, Legal and Regulatory Services Department of NCC.