The Nigerian Export Promotion Council on Tuesday unveiled its service charter that would raise the expectations and define the standard of service to be provided to customers and members of staff. The move is part of the strategies to stimulate improvements and reforms in the way businesses would be conducted in the export promotion agency The charter would also guide the activities of service provision and delivery as well as enable the agency to process exporters’ certificate within 24 hours provided all the relevant documents and payments are submitted and confirmed. The unveiling of the charter would further give impetus to the promotion, development and diversification of Nigeria’s exports trade. It would also assist in promoting the development of export-related industries in the country as well as spearhead the creation of appropriate export incentives. Speaking at the official launch of the charter, the Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer, NEPC, Mr Olusegun Awolowo, said if the economy must be diversified, then there was the need for the NEPC to provide prompt and efficient services to its clients. He said, “The service charter that is being launched is actually a social contract with our clients. It is a commitment to improving service delivery and assurance to members of the public that our members of staff are going to discharge their responsibilities in line with the tenets of the charter. “I can assure our clients and other stakeholders that both management and staff of the Council are highly committed to this charter because this is what we were employed to do; it is our job. “We would, therefore, ensure that no one is short-changed by the quality of our service. “To those end, I have directed the Servicom Unit to ensure that henceforth, no file should exceed a maximum of 48 hours without being treated. “Similarly, members of staff must ensure that they provide services based on NEPC’s core values of professionalism, integrity, teamwork and customer care.”