Roulette is without a doubt one of the most popular casino games out there in the 21st Century, there is no denying that. What can be more exciting than watching a ball spin around a physical wheel after all? Especially when you have bets on the table at 666 Casino waiting to come in. And, of course, the bets are the most important thing after all, because Roulette is a casino game, not just something people play for pure enjoyment. As such there have been a multitude of different strategies theorised by people over the years, all of which claim to give you the perfect betting system. Here is the thing though; many strategies can actually serve to negatively impact your playing way more than you would think. Sounds like we need an all-encompassing Roulette strategy doesn’t it? Don’t mind if we do. You may have heard of some betting strategies such as the Martingale or Fibonacci systems, and if you have ever actually followed these you will know that they are basically just mathematical sequences that vary in complexity. The idea behind them is that they increase your odds of winning as much as possible, but in reality it rarely actually works like that. Far from being useful, these strategies can be way too rigid, especially if they want to be truly all-encompassing. It is time to look elsewhere… Now, this is a strategy that relies on actually observing the way the Roulette wheel works, rather than simply adhering to blind mathematical sequence. The name in German literally translates to “watching the wheel”, and it is a tactic that has been used across the world. In particular with the German professional gambler Christian Kaisan, who has earned millions of dollars using the technique. The way the Kessulgucken strategy works is basically to observe your given Roulette wheel looking for any irregularities or trends you can find. Theoretically it should be impossible to accurately deduce where a ball will land, but there are actually many minute things that can make a huge difference – let’s have a look at them. We know what you will be saying; you cannot really predict the wheel can you? But the truth is in almost all casinos you will start to notice things if you observe it for long enough. One of the main things to have a look for is any kind of wear or tear, and whether the wheel is perfectly set up or not. Sometimes a slanted playing surface or a dent in the right place can make all the difference. Also pay close attention to the diamonds that are situated on the wheel in order to break up the flow of the ball. These are meant to make it even more random, but you will generally find that there is a “dominant” diamond that the ball always hits. In the majority of cases this will result in it stopping more regularly on a certain few numbers. Quite simply yes. And the reason why? It relies on physical intuition rather than blind mathematical formula.