The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has advised the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on the need to ensure that violence does not mar the November 16 governorship election in Kogi State. It called on the electoral umpire to issue a “direct warning” to Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to desist from any act of violence before, during and after the election. In a statement yesterday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party said Kogi State people were prepared to confront the governor and his party on all fronts. It cautioned INEC not to attempt to use its extrapolations on violence as a cover and justification to manipulate the election, saying PDP was poised to win the poll. The electoral body had expressed apprehension about possible violence during the poll and had appealed to stakeholders to ensure a violence free election. But the PDP stressed that it was the responsibility of INEC to ensure a credible, free and fair poll devoid of orchestrated logistic failures that stoked agitations and violence in past elections. “Our party is already aware of the heinous plots by jittery Yahaya Bello to orchestrate violence, having realised that there is no way he can win in this election. “Our message to the sinking governor is that such cannot save him from a crushing defeat at the polls,” the party added. The PDP said while it would not support or preach violence, it must be noted that the party is standing behind Kogi State people in their determination never to allow anybody to intimidate or suppress them. It said: “The PDP wants INEC and Governor Bello to note that the November 16 election is a determined march by the people against a suppressive, cruel, chaotic, sadistic, acrimonious and inhuman administration. “It is a determined march against acute poverty, hunger and starvation, fear, general low life and despondency in the state, which Governor Bello and the APC represent. “The Kogi election will mark a definite and inevitable triumph of light over darkness, freedom over suppression, prosperity over poverty, justice over impunity, peace over violence, progress over stagnation, democracy over personality cult and self-centredness. No amount of intimidation can stop the people in this resolve. “The PDP, therefore, counsels INEC to desist from negative extrapolations and be ready to deliver a credible, free, fair, transparent election, devoid of deliberate logistic failures tailored to frustrate the will of the people.”