Leading digital terrestrial pay-television operator, GOtv, has announced plans to reward its subscribers, especially parents and guardians, with its “Back to School” Promo offer. The Back to School Promo offer, which runs till Saturday, 28 September, will see 75 subscribers winning N100, 000 each to augment payment of their children’s school fees, and 200 customers winning N50, 000 worth of school supplies. Active and disconnected GOtv subscribers have the opportunity to benefit from this offer once they renew their subscription for as low as N1, 250 on GOtv Value, N1, 900 on GOtv Plus or N3, 200 on GOtv Max before Saturday. Martin Mabutho, Chief Customer Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria, said the offer is one of the ways by which GOtv appreciates its subscribers and supports them with preparations for their children, who are returning to school for a new academic session. “We recognize that getting the kids back to school comes with a few challenges and we want to take some of that load off our customers. With the GOtv Back to School Promo, we are giving our customers on GOtv Max, Plus and Value a unique opportunity to enjoy quality and affordable programming on our platform as well as the chance to win additional funds to take care of their children’s educational requirements,” Mabutho said. The kids have a galaxy of educative and entertaining shows to keep them happy on their return from school on the various kiddies’ channels on GOtv. Such shows include the Mickey Mouse Clubhouse, which airs on Wednesday at 5am on Disney Junior (GOtv channel 60); Alvin in Alvinnn!!! And the Chipmunks, showing weekdays at 2:30pm on Nickeloeon (GOtv channel 60); and Strawberry Shortcake, airing on Saturday on JimJam (GOtv channel 61). Also, the Step Up campaign is ongoing, as customers can now pay N2, 600 for GOtv Max and and GOtv tops up the remaining N600! The offer is valid until Thursday, 31 October. For more information and other scheduled programming, visit www.gotvafrica.com Follow GOtv @gotvng on Twitter and Instagram, and on Facebook at www.facebook.com/GOtvNigeria .