The Social Secretary of the club, Federal Airports Authority (FAAN) Tennis Club, Mr Nkem Achinivu said that the Club focus on nurturing talents and impart the skills into the younger ones.  The sixth edition of the tournament held at FAAN Quarters, Opposite Murtala Mohammed Airport, Ikeja, Lagos.  Achinivu said we focus on children’s tournament so that we can catch them young and impart the skills of the game into the kids to become world champions tomorrow.  “We have love for tennis and we are trying to push it down to the younger ones. To impart the skills and knowledge of tennis, we organized annual age-grade tournament and it has become tradition for the younger ones,” he said.  While speaking on the monitoring of the previous winners, he said the club does attach coaches to the winners and watch them grow in tennis.  According to one of the organizer “this tourney is wonderful and the kids need this type of competition to develop themselves physically and mentally.”  Under of12 Girls Final game from Okajare Sunmisola vs Osayunwan O. Joel recorded first set 7:5; second set 6:5 and third set produced 10:8  The winner, Miss Okajare Sunmisola, who won the game by 7:5 and 10:8, in response to question how did she see the competition, she said am very excited for the opportunity given by FAAN Tennis Club to showcase children God-given talent on the court.  She said that I am happy, I win the competition  Okajare disclosed that when I was behind, I encouraged myself that I can surpass my opponent and win. Then I started talk to myself internally till I won the game.  I thank God almighty and FAAN Tennis Club for given me opportunity to participated  While the runner up, Miss Osayunwan O. Joel said I thank God, though, I lost the game, I am very happy to have participated.  Osayunwan disclosed that this is second time she become a runner up, notwithstanding, am happy.  She developed chest pained in third set of the game which brought game to temporary stop and after recovered certified to continue. Game resumed thereafter.  Other matches showed Under 12 Boys; featured Michael Nekekpemi  vs Happy Agbi final results showed Michael  Michael Nekekpemi as winner beating opponent by 6:3; 3:6; 10:6  Also under 14 Girls game featured Blessing Otu vs Esther Marshal where final result showed 6:3; 6:1 declared Miss Blessing Otu as a winner.  Under 14 Boys game featured Taofeek Mogaji vs Jimoh Joseph and at the end of the game, Taofeek Mogaji won the game with 7:5 and 6:3  The organizer disclosed that they have a coach, who takes upon himself to monitor the progress of these children and continue to encourage them at every given opportunity.  While appealing to government at all levels to provide sporting facilities in schools for the athletes to develop their skills.