Some of the beneficiaries of the NNPC/CNL-sponsored RBM programme being attended to by medical workers Chevron Nigeria Limited, in collaboration with the Delta State Government kicked off the second leg of a Roll-Back- Malaria campaign on September 11, 2019, at the Ode-Ugborodo Health Centre located at Aruntan-Ugborodoin Warri South-West Local Government Area of Delta State.  The campaign involved free malaria tests for people, distribution of insecticide-treated nets and waste management bins to selected households and community health and environmental education centres. The beneficiaries, comprising of women, children, women, pregnant women, youths and the aged from Madangho and other neighbouring Itsekiri communities, were also given free drugs. Some of the beneficiaries of the NNPC/CNL -sponsored RBM programme being attended to by medical workers The event, which is a continuation of the RBM campaign that earlier held on June 7, 2019, at Tsekelewu community and environs in Warri North, was implemented by an NGO, the Women’s Rights Advancement and Protection Alternative (RAPA). Members of the WRAPA team included a medical doctor, nurses, laboratory technologists and social workers.  The chairman of Warri South West Local Government Area, Mr Taiye Tuoyo, lauded NNPC/Chevron JV for coming to the aide of the rural folks at a time the rains are coming more heavily and mosquitoes breeding everywhere. Edna Ohunayo, Coordinator of implementing NGO, Women’s Rights Advancement and Protection Alternative (WRAPA), Health Workers, Government representatives and some of the distributed items. Tuoyo, who was represented by the Supervisor for Health, Warri South West, Emami Harriman and Councillor from Ajudaibo Ward, Honorable Ernest Menewe, described the exercise as wonderful.  “It’s a good initiative that NNPC and Chevron brought this to the community, and we appreciate it so much because malaria has been an epidemic in this environment. “It’s wonderful. It’s a way of letting the community know that we care for them. I believe that they will no longer have that mentality that health care is about money,” they noted. Edna Ohunayo, Coordinator of implementing NGO, Women’s Rights Advancement and Protection Alternative (WRAPA), Health Workers, Government representatives and some of the distributed item One of the beneficiaries, Mrs Bose Ajakaye, who said none of her children tested positive to the malaria parasite, expressed gratitude to NNPC/Chevron JV for coming over to help them tackle the scourge of malaria in the swamp creeks.“Them dey give us medicine and net for malaria. “I say “thank you” as them dey help us. God go help them make them dey come more and more,” the mother, who brought along her five children, noted.