Oraimo, a leading premium smart accessories company in Nigeria, has unveiled music legend, Innocent Idibia popularly known as 2Face and 2baba as its first and official brand ambassador amidst pomp and glitz. The unveiling, which took place at The Providence by Mantis in Ikeja GRA, Lagos on Friday, 27 September 2019, sought to raise the company’s brand imagery and drive uptake of its products through the creation of a thematic campaign tagged “Be the King”. The company whose key products range include  power bank, headset, necklace, fit bands, USB cords, phone chargers, car chargers and others, also used the opportunity to launch a new necklace- King of Gbedu into the market. The king of Gbedu, which was presented to the new brand ambassador, has over 310 hours battery life with 2face signature on it. According to a  statement made available to the media, Oraimo signed one of Nigeria’s musical giant, 2face as part of its strategic approach to posturing the brand as premium, locally authentic and relevant to a young upwardly mobile audience. Speaking on the reasons for the event, the West Africa Zone 1 Manager, Ilesanmi Oladunni said, “We have always wanted to do something different, something that can change people’s lives so that they can explore the wonderful world,” adding that “to change the world, we decided to start with smart accessories, enabling our customers to keep exploring,” he said. On how the campaign theme aligns with the company’s customer aspiration, Oladunni said, “The theme speaks directly to the consumer who is thriving for self-fulfilment. Consumer aspiration for self-actualization and growth requires the right tools and support for it to be attained,” he said. “When you desire to rule the world, Oraimo’s power bank with high capacity and fast charging time gives you continuous confidence. When you desire communication and listening, Oraimo produces top quality earphones with premium sound and bass. Oraimo wants to be part of the journey of every Nigerian from earphone to power bank, battery, charger, speaker, memory card, smart watch, and Bluetooth devices, ,” the West Africa Zone 1 Manager guaranteed. While expressing delight over the signing of 2face as the brand ambassador, the General Manager of Transsion Holdings, Chidi Okonkwo said, “Today marks a significant milestone for two iconic brands that share similar traits of reliance, consistency, and quality. We at Oraimo have come a long way in providing our customers with best-in-class, quality products that guarantee satisfactory user-experience.” He said, “We believe as a brand that personal progress in our world demands that every human continues to be a better version of themselves- learning, improving, taking calculated risks, and exploring. These traits are very much ingrained in the DNA of the two brands for which we have gathered here.” Okonkwo stated that the presentation of the music legend and icon, a global brand and household name in Africa as the newest member of the Oraimo family is a partnership that holds huge prospect to the business and its customers. “We are thrilled about the prospects which this partnership presents for both parties. Our loyal customers can be assured of the best possible offering a partnership of this degree provides, both in product design, lifestyle and user experience.” Speaking after his presentation as the company’s brand ambassador and launched of the new necklace tagged King of Gbedu, 2face thanked Oraimo for picking him to represent the brand. “I feel very honoured to be picked as the brand ambassador of the premium brand. I will do everything possible to promote its range of products.” Oraimo is a smart premium, mobile accessories brand, and an important part of the Transsion family. It products are smartly designed to improve efficiency in communications, productivity and ease of use.