The Independent Petroleum Marketers Association of Nigeria, IPMAN, has promised to increase supply of petroleum products to residents within Cross River State and environs. Robert Asu-Obi, the interim C hairman of IPMAN Cross River State chapter, gave the assurance in Calabar capital city during a parley with newsmen over the prolonged scarcity of fuel. Recently, the Governor of the State, Sir Ben Ayade lifted a one-month ban imposed on the activities of IPMAN due to a leadership tussle between two factions of the association. In appreciation of the gesture, Sanusi Fari, the national president of IPMAN, recognized Robert Asu-Obi as the interim chairman pending the conduct of another election. Partnership Obi told journalists that to effectively supply petroleum products to the people, the association was partnering with the Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers, NUPENG, and Petroleum Tankers Drivers, PTD, for a smooth distribution. While assuring that peace had returned to the Calabar depot community, Asu-Obi said: “I just took over the leadership of the depot today. I want to thank Governor Ben Ayade, who made it possible for us to achieve this peace.” “One major task is to reconcile all aggrieved members and work as a team to sustain the peace. My doors are open to everyone. The victory is for all marketers, who are lifting products from the Calabar depot,” stated. He also stated: “The system needs to be peaceful for smooth operation of fuel distribution across the state. I want to assure residents of Cross River that with my assumption of office today, petroleum product will flow well across the State and the issue of scarcity will be over.” Obi, who also spoke about the need for better federal roads to ease the burden of transporting petroleum products across State boundaries, promised to engage relevant government agencies on the matter. He commended the Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari for the appointment of Babatunde Fashola as Minister of Works and Senator Godswill Akpabio as the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs. He added: “As an association, we would be engaging with the Ministers with a view to rehabilitating our roads.”