Digitization has emerged as a key driver and enabler of socio-economic benefits  The Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta while delivery his Keynote Address said we must define and understand certain concepts that will transit us to Digital Nigeria. These concepts are: Digitization, Digitalization, and Digital Transformation. The three concepts often intertwined or used interchangeably, but with distinct definitions.  Prof who was a guest speaker at the 2nd edition of the Business Journal Annual Lecture and Awards at Sheraton Lagos Hotels, Ikeja on Friday, 20th September, 2019 on ‘Digital Nigeria: The Path to Sustainable Economic Growth’  The Executive Vice Chairman, NCC who was represented at the event by Dr Henry Nkemadu, Director, Public Affairs of the Commission pointed out that digital Nigeria is when the country will be able to utilize electronic devices online and offline and in which case most transactions/activities will be in digital format. Our world is becoming ever more connected. Billions of intelligent devices and machines generate massive amounts of data, creating a bridge between real and virtual worlds. Turning these vast amounts of data into value is a key success factor.  “The importance of Digital Communications has been linked to the advent of information and communications technologies (ICT) in technological changes, innovation and knowledge management. In fact, technological innovation has continued to enhance human capabilities – (such as a healthy life, knowledge, creativity, and participation in the social, economic, and political life of a community) and impacts on economic growth through productivity gains. The preponderance of digital platforms has eased service delivery and other electronic exchange has created possibilities for industry to work with Governments to enhance socio-economic well-being of the human society.  “ICTs have been known as catalysts or enablers of economic development. Digitization has emerged as a key driver and enabler of socio-economic benefits.  The role of innovation for growth is strengthened by advances in new technologies, and a greater focus on knowledge creation. Indeed, the more advanced a country becomes in terms of digitization, the greater the beneﬁts — increased digitization yields improved returns.  Danbatta said digitalization is the use of digital technologies to change a business model and provide new revenue and value-producing opportunities; it is the process of moving to a digital business.  Whereas, he noted that digitization is the process of converting information into a digital format. In this format, information is organized into discrete units of data that can be separately addressed. Digitalization is therefore transforming relevant digital information into business and economic activities that drives national growth and development, Danbatta noted.  “Digital transformation is the profound and accelerating transformation of business activities, processes, competencies and models to fully leverage the changes and opportunities of digital technologies and their impact across society in a strategic and prioritized way.  He noted that digital transformation requires a much broader adoption of digital technology and cultural change. According to EVC NCC, digital transformation is more about people than it is about digital technology. It requires organizational changes that are customer-centric, backed by leadership, driven by radical challenges to corporate culture, and the leveraging of technologies that empower and enable employees, he added.  Prof said the economic diversification of the Nigerian economy will give impetus for increase mobilization of all resources and increase revenues accruable to government. This will cause an exponential increase in productive activities in industry, manufacturing, infrastructure development, health, and agriculture to stimulate growth and development of the Nigerian economy. The NCC shall continue to provide the conducive regulatory environment for increased private sector investment and expansion of economic activities.  NCC Boss disclosed that the interventions of the NCC play a vital role in supporting the evolution of digital processes and appreciation in various sectors of the economy. From Setting up Public Access Points and ICT Training Centres, the Digital Awareness Programme (DAP), the Advanced Digital Awareness programme for Tertiary Institutions (ADAPTI), the School Knowledge Centre (SKC), all of which have benefitted over 500 schools across the country, the educational sector in Nigeria has definitely felt the digital wand of the NCC.  “The NCC continues to promote and facilitate universal access to ICT to ensure implementation of e-taxation, ecommerce and e-government financial sector areas, which were identified as the economic enhancement needed for sustainability of the Nigerian economy. Improving user (traveler) experience such as online ticketing, boarding, and check in processes; and Vehicle tracking and navigations through mobile and Internet services, are also some key examples of how Telecommunications is enhancing Nigeria’s digital profile.  The Captioned Photo: The Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta