The Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) has boosted access of Ilorin, Kwara State, and its environs to petroleum products supply as the corporation’s Group Managing Director, Mallam Mele Kyari, re-commissioned the Ancient City’s NNPC Depot. NNPC GMD, Mallam Mele Kyari (third from right), along with Kwara State Governor, Mallam, Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq, at the recommissioning of Ilorin depot today. With them are top NNPC officials.  The Ilorin Depot is part of the corporation’s System 2B Pipeline Network knocked down more than eight years ago due to acts of pipeline vandalism. Speaking at the event Saturday in Ilorin, the NNPC GMD said the re-commissioning was aimed at restoring petroleum products supply and distribution for the benefit of Nigerians and in line with the vision of President Buhari to make Nigerians happy and bring peace to every home. A release today in Abuja by NNPC Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, said Mallam Kyari stated that the event was historic for NNPC in its quest to resuscitate its assets across the country, adding that Ilorin and its environs would be saved from the vagaries of bridging following the recommissioning of the depot. While acknowledging the corporation’s success in restreaming a couple of its depots and pipelines, the GMD stressed that NNPC would not relent in its efforts until all pipeline networks in the country are revitalized. Mallam Kyari declared that vandalism was inimical to all parties’ interests, the NNPC and host communities’ whose commercial activities are also negatively impacted. NNPC GMD, Mallam Mele Kyari (right), in a discussion with the Kwara State Governor, Mallam, Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq, at the recommissioning of Ilorin depot today. With them are top NNPC officials. Kwara State Governor, Mallam, Abdulrahman Abdulrasaq, who witnessed the recommissioning of the depot, commended the NNPC for its foresight in restoring the operations at the facility, saying that the development would bring prosperity to the State. “The NNPC has saved us the stress of moving products through trucks through hundreds of kilometers with its attendant hazards and will help in securing our national assets”, the Governor enthused.