Union Bank has announced the second edition of its annual education fair – Edu360, in line with its efforts to support education as a vital sector for Nigeria’s growth and development.The three-day event themed,‘Education Beyond Walls’ will take place at the Union Bank Sports Centre in Surulere, Lagos from Thursday, 24th to Saturday, 26th of October, 2019, and will attract audiences across the education ecosystem including government officials, educators, parents and students. Attendees will benefit from a robust programme lineup that includes talks, panel sessions, masterclasses, workshops and training sessions for teachers. There will also be immersive and interactive activities and learning sessions for students, including gaming classes, robotics and coding, acting clinics, and photography workshops. The focus of the annual conference is to facilitate critical engagement between key stakeholders in the sector, provide essential teacher training for public school teachers and expose students across all education cadres to experiential and creative learning opportunities. Speaking on the Edu360initiative, the Chief Executive Officer of Union Bank, Emeka Emuwa said: “Union Bank has been a leading advocate for education in Nigeria. Edu360 presents a platform to express our robust support for this key sector. Following the successful first edition last year, we realise that great ideas and collaboration are key to moving the education sector forward.We hope that the discussions and conversations at Edu360 2019will unearth new ideas that will help build this very crucial sector.” Edu360 was established in 2018 by Union Bank as a platform to rapidly accelerate access, quality and learning outcomes for Nigerian children and youth. The inaugural event drew over 3,000 delegates. This year, the event is expected to attract 5,000 delegates and will feature an exhibition where service providers in the education sector will showcase their products and services. Entry to the event is free and open to members of the public. Registration is ongoing at www.edu360.ng. In 2017, Union Bank made a commitment to drive private sector engagement in delivering Nigeria’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through the Next100 initiative; highlighting SDG 4 – Quality Education as one of the areas in which it intends to drive impact. Between April and June this year, hundreds of teachers and school administrators in Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt benefited from free training sessions organised by Union Bank on the Edu360 platform, in a bid to boost the quality of education in Nigerian schools. The Bank also recently organised the EdTech Challenge to discover, showcase and support innovative, cutting-edge technologies with the potential to transform Nigeria’s education system. During the entry period from July 30toAugust 23, 2019,over 1,060ideas were received. Finalists from the competition will be invited to pitch their ideas during Edu360, with the top three ideas receiving total funding support of N5,000,000. Union Bank remains committed to supporting Nigeria’s growth by identifying and investing in sectors that are vital to shaping a better, more sustainable future for generations to come. About Union Bank Plc. Established in 1917 and listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1971, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc. is a household name and one of Nigeria’s long-standing and most respected financial institutions. The Bank is a trusted and recognizable brand, with an extensive network of over 300 branches across Nigeria. In late 2012, a new Board of Directors and Executive Management team were appointed to Union Bank and in 2014 the Bank began executing a transformation programme to re-establish it as a highly respected provider of quality financial services. The Bank currently offers a variety of banking services to both individual and corporate clients including current, savings and deposit account services, funds transfer, foreign currency domiciliation, loans, overdrafts, equipment leasing and trade finance. The Bank also offers its customers convenient electronic banking channels and products including Online Banking, Mobile Banking, Debit Cards, ATMs and POS Systems.