… Expresses Readiness to Work with Sylva, Kyari The Secretary General of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), Mohammed Sanusi Barkindo, has commended the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) for its ongoing reforms aimed at changing the fortunes of the corporation for the better. Secretary General of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), Mr. Mohammed Sanusi Barkindo (Centre) stressing a point while inspecting the NNPC Pavilion during the ongoing 24th World Energy Congress (WEC) in Abu Dha Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, Tuesday. Barkindo made the commendation on Tuesday shortly after inspecting the NNPC Pavilion at the ongoing 24th World Energy Congress in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The OPEC scribe said he was glad to see the corporation’s Management pursue the dreams of its founding fathers despite the challenges of contraction in investment that have affected the global Energy Industry. “I am glad that you continue to match on with your projects despite the downturn in the Industry. We have seen the Industry globally suffered in terms of contraction in investment which affected capacity. You have not only been able to stay on course, but you  also continue with these projects which are critical for the development of the corporation and the Industry in Nigeria”, Barkindo stated. R-L: Secretary General of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), Mr. Mohammed Sanusi Barkindo, being welcomed to the NNPC Pavilion by the COO, Downstream and Representative of the GMD, Mr. Adeyemi Adetunji, during the ongoing 24thWorld Energy Congress (WEC) in Abu Dha Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, Tuesday. Affirming his confidence in the new leadership of the corporation, the OPEC Scribe said that the competences of the newly appointed Minister of State for Petroleum, Chief Timipreye Sylva and that of the NNPC GMD, Mallam Mele Kyari, were good match towards bringing the much-needed direction and development in the continental Oil and Gas Industry. “I know both Timipreye Sylva as a friend and Mele Kyari as a colleague for a very long time. I had worked with both and I know that if they work together, they will make a good team that will provide the leadership that the corporation and the Industry require”, Barkindo added. Barkindo particularly expressed his delight with the Kyari’s transparency and accountability drive, as entrenched in his Transparency, Accountability Performance Excellence (TAPE) Vision, describing it as indispensable key elements towards gaining investor confidence. “To lead such a sensitive and capital-intensive industry like the oil and gas, you must have transparency and accountability as one of your core principles in order to drive change. I am glad I know Mele Kyari for a very long time. He is a very capable and straightforward individual with high level of integrity even as a very junior officer. So, he has a track record. I remain confident that together with his team, and with the support of government, he will accomplish the task”.Secretary General of the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), Mr. Mohammed Sanusi Barkindo (Centre), flanked by the COO Downstream and Representative of the GMD, Mr. AdeyemiAdetunji (right) and the COO Refining & Petrochemicals, Engr. Mustapha Yakubu, during the ongoing 24thWorld Energy Congress (WEC) in Abu Dha Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, Tuesday.  Earlier, while briefing the OPEC scribe at the event, the Chief Operating Officer Downstream, who represented the GMD at the triennial Conference, Mr. Adetunji Adeyemi, shed more light on strategic projects of the corporation and also assured Barkindo of the current NNPC leadership’s commitment to deliver on their mandate. 