The Flour Mills of Nigeria plc, Chairman, John G Coumantaros said we understand the need to promote value through the chain process of cassava and have continued to position the business to take advantage of the strong economic opportunities hereinThese statement excerpted said contained in annual report to the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the company held  in Lagos on September 4 which gave insight that Agro-Allied Division of flour mill of Nigeria is to ensure that our businesses continue to deliver against strategy, and maximize our leading position in key market segments, we have over the years actively invested in developing the critical infrastructure required to support our five key value chain of Grains, Oils & fats, Sweeteners, Proteins and Starches.  The Chairman further noted that “our business model in this value chain is built on our long term commitment to operational excellence, with substantial emphases on research and development and innovation. We understand the need to promote value through the chain process of cassava and have continued to position the business to take advantage of the strong economic opportunities herein. In addition to the introduction of the now Golden Penny Garri, as part of   our local content development strategy, PCPL has developed a new Industrial Cassava Starch Product, which will be used to substitute Corn Starch importation in the Nigerian market, he added.  “Within the agro-allied division, we made significant structural changes in the past year. These changes were part of a carefully thought out strategy to position the FMN Group for greater synergy, operational efficiency and improve financial performance.  Additionally, FMN Boss said, it is worth mentioning that over the years our agro-allied business has expanded to include pilot and out grower farming and other downstream activities such as blending, distribution and sale of fertilizer, production of animal feed, soya beans, maize, cassava, and oil palm as well as the processing of such crops and the crushing and refining of oil seeds. Agro Inputs and Distribution  Mr Coumantaros further said Golden Fertiliser Company which is the mainstay of Golden Agri Inputs Limited (GAIL) continues to align with the federal government’s presidential fertilizer initiative to ensure that farmers across the country have access to fertilizer blenders. In this regard, Golden Fertiliser company has commissioned 20 tonnes per hour blending plant in Kaduna and has installed a 100metric tonnes per hour blending plant in Apapa, Lagos as part of an extensive expansion plan.  “Leveraging on the size and reach of our business, we continue to provide specialized support to smallholder farmers in the areas of agronomy and input provision, aggregation and storage via our network of warehouses, collection points and silos complexes, to reduce post-harvest-losses and provide ready market for raw materials through our processing units across the country. FMN remains committed to its strategy of promoting local content development by increasing the volume of raw materials that we use for our products while working closely with farmers and suppliers to implement responsible sourcing practices that is transparent and encourages the sustainable long-term supply of raw materials.  Starches  “The group-wide restructuring processing for our business in the agriculture sector saw Thai Farm International Limited undergo a complete overhaul of its brand identity and name change to Premium Cassava Products Limited (PCPL). Accordingly, PCPL’s new brand identity features a top-to-bottom redesign of the company’s logo, graphics, communications and correspondence.  “It is important to mention, however, that the brand refresh process was limited to the logo and communication assets. Our existing policies on product, customer relations, quality commitment, management and direction will not be adversely affected. Our customers, consumers and other stakeholders will continue to get best of services that they have become accustomed to while partnering with ‘Thai Farm’.   Oils and fats  “In the financial year, ROM Oil Mills, one of our key investments and upstream businesses in the Oils and Fats value chain, continued to build on the foundation of proceedings years, with total of production increasing by 13 percent to close at 134082.58 metric tons. This improvement was recorded despite shortages in key raw materials and intense competition pressure arising from inward smuggling of crude palm oil which is sold at outrageously cheap prices.  “You will be happy to know that ROM Oil which is supported by Agri Palm, 3,500 ha of oil palm plantation has achieved a solid step-up performance giving us confidence in the growth of our margarine edible oils and fats, branded consumer (B2C) and industrial business (B2B).  Feeds and Proteins  As the market leader in the animal and fish feeds and nutrition sector, Chairman said, Premier Feed Mills is undergoing significant transformation, as the business transits into a more professional animal nutrition company by developing new capabilities around go-to-market strategies. He added that innovations have been made bigger and stronger to aid value-based selling, targeted at achieving continuous profitability and expanding market leadership. At our Calabar plant, Mr Counmantaros revealed that we commissioned a new extrusion line with the capacity to produce 5,000 metric tons of aquafeed per month. The line is designed to produce premium aqaufeed for the Nigerian market in line with an overreaching strategy of repositioning the business to meet the demands of the growing aqaufeed market, he noted. 