In line with its commitment to celebrate and reward excellence in all spheres of the brands and Marketing Communications industry, the MARKETING EDGE board has approved the inclusion and addition of Brand Journalist of the Year Award category to this year’s MARKETING EDGE Brands & Advertising Excellence Awards. The new category marks the first time that the award will be recognizing brand journalists for their efforts in brand management business growth and development and growth of the Nigerian brands as well as the marketing communications industry in Nigeria. Specifically, the new award category was in recognition of the pioneering and pace-setting role played by MARKETING EDGE in establishing and popularizing brand journalism as a new genre of journalism in contemporary media practice in Nigeria over a decade ago. Publisher/CEO of MARKETING EDGE publications, Mr. John Ajayi who made this known in a statement said “the development was part of an on-going rigorous process towards ensuring that MARKETING EDGE delivers a robust, top of the market and highly competitive award that truly celebrates the ideas, innovation and strategic thinking that are changing the brands and marketing landscape in Nigeria. “The MARKETING EDGE annual National Marketing Summit & Brands & Advertising Excellence Awards 2019 promises to be bigger better and competitive, with categories that reflect the fast-moving marketing and advertising landscape and recognise all the talents who are driving the change. So besides reviewing the categories, we are adding Brand Journalist of the Year category to the award for the first time to make it even more vibrant and relevant to all stakeholders.” Mr. Ajayi said the decision to add Brand Journalist of the Year category to the event is intended to draw attention of the industry especially about the remarkable effort of Nigerian journalists towards ensuring brand growth, and their indispensable role in the value chain of brand building and marketing communications sector. According to the organisers, journalists who are interested in the award are invited to send entries either by post, online or direct delivery at MARKETING EDGE office in Lagos. A lucky winner of this award category will go home with a laptop and an award crystal with one-year free supply of MARKETING EDGE magazine. Key consideration would be given to brand journalist whose works and past reports have radically impacted brand building and consumer awareness campaign in very significant ways. Similarly, attention will also be placed on past reports and jobs that have done critical reviews of all the themes of the past six editions of MARKETING EDGE National Marketing Summit. Entries will no longer be received after April 30, 2019. The theme for this year’s summit, as the board disclosed is, “Storytelling in Contemporary Brand Building: Convergence of Creativity and Technology” The event is scheduled to hold on Thursday, June 6, 2019 at Balmoral Event Centre, Ikeja, Lagos. Those who may want more enquiries about the annual award show can call the following: John – 08023243054, Amos – 08023039359, Anietie -08066879292 and Ogechi- 08037736050.