A man, armed with guts, passion, determination, perseverance and an experience in public relation over the years, a well respected by the media in Aviation Industry within Lagos arena. A man of many parts, a former journalist, Samuel Ayodele Adurogboye is a General Manager and the Head, Public Affairs of Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), a services business concern that is into Aviation transportation. He is versatile and result–oriented as a civil servant with extensive knowledge in the aviation services business environment. Mr Adurogboye in an interview recently spoke on a wide range of aviation topical issues with Benjamin A Ameh, editor/publisher of the Amehnews, a foremost online platform with over thirteen (13) years in operations. Excerpts:  There was report about both US and France investors’ interest in Nigeria Aviation Sector. How far to the process of the interest?  Well, the desired of the federal government is to attract investors both local and foreign into every sectors of the Nigeria economy, aviation sector inclusive. Now, recall that even the federal government led by the sector one time or other visited the European countries seek due for the investment, so whether it is U.S, whether it is France, were sometimes or others are here. If they are now show interest to come and invest, it is a welcome development. It is life view aspiration of the federal government, so government looks forward for that and they have asked for it and we expected that when they come that will help to inject necessary fund into the sector and thereby creates services and employment for the Nigerians who will be working there and ofcourse they too will make profit from there. It is two-way; they bring their money to invest with hope that they too will make profits from the business. It is welcome development.   There was report on Aviation Security to bear light arms. What is delaying the take off?  Basically, that idea of aviation security as staff of federal government, there has been an approval. Law have been made, approval has be produced for them to be carrying light arms like you have said, but it has not taking off because of all necessary things needed to be done and part of it, is training. So, I understand the training is ongoing, of course, it be done by the Nigeria police and they have be trainings quite alright. I think as soon as authority are satisfied that they are proficient enough to carry arms as far as going through due diligent has be made and profiling also. Then, they will start to carry the light arms because all necessary approval has made, it is that area of training that is ongoing but as soon as they are through. They are others things that has to be done. Profiling of staffers that going be carrying arms that is knowing beyond just been a staff. Their background information, where they are been into, their political lineage, their views, their lifestyle and all these have be checked, so that we able to supper equate to see that they are feat to be carrying arm. So that we not just armed wrong person, that they may abuse it. So all things are being done, as soon as they are throughout, they will start, it become operational. ALSO READ: Aviation ministry seeks Senate nod for $461.8m loan for New terminals In follow up, will every aviation security carry arm?  Well, all aviation security are meant to, other than policy, but by the time authority carried out their screening around ongoing and if they find all them feat, why not? If not it will not be all them. Even in Nigeria police, not all the time you see all police carry arm, some carry batten while others carry tears gas. So depends on the duty, assignment at what time of the day that may warrant them to carry arms.   Sometimes at airport, some planes are parked. What are the causes of parking? On issue of aircraft parking, at every time, particular it is only air craft that area air worth that allowed being in services. Now, when you go to an airport you see that they are some air crafts that are parked in there more than two to three-day or more. Why are they parked there? They parked because they are having one or two things to clear. If an aircraft due for maintenance, it has to takes for that maintenance, you don’t put it for services, even a day, after it has become due for maintenance. Now, the aircraft maintenance are majorly done abroad because before you take your plane abroad for the maintenance, the maintenance has to be at approved and certified centre by us. So, you take your plane to an Aircraft Maintenance Organization (AMO), a place that has our approval, that has our certification, the place is okay that we can  come to check  to ensure the centre have qualified  engineers and necessary tools  for  the effective maintenance. So we give that approval that lasted for a period.  So any time you see aircraft flying it is because that plane has air worth approval. If you see aircraft parks it is because it has one or two things to do, that is why it parked there. If you see plane parks at airport is not air worth in one way or others. It could be insurance, if insurance is not valid, aircraft would not be in sky and you are there as an operator out there are not to use the aircraft at all. If by chance you have to use the aircraft for a second, it a serious offense and view seriously. So in totality of the maintenance, insurance and every component are taking seriously. If staffers are not pay salary is a serious issues, is an indication that that organization in distress. So if insurance is not valid is serious because if the plane has an accident that means they cannot pay insurance claims. So at all time aircraft that seen be use are good and satisfied okay, that why there are being use if not they will be on ground  What is the process of Plane Permit to park?  When you talk about permit, not permit to parks. We give permit to everybody that has plane, they has some level of certificate that allows them to lessee it. Now, if you want to run a private airline for only charter, you have different permit and if you to run a passengers carrier on regular bases, you have different permit or plane for yourself you get different permit. Now, parking of an aircraft has based on where you registered, if you based in Lagos your aircraft parks in Lagos will not attract fees but you based in Kaduna, your aircraft parks in Abuja or kano will attract fees. Parks outside your operational base will pay fees but within your operational base, no fees. For example, Chanchangi Airlines Nigeria Limited with head office in Kaduna, and Azman Air Services Limited in Kano, parks in Lagos over night do paid fees for their parking.   In follow up, how NCAA accounts for Private individual aircraft parking?  The parking by the individuals not for commercial , the way we manages them is that when you buy your private aircraft because you can’t fulfill the requirements for operating air certificate. What we do is to advise them to look for an individual who have air operating certificate and make business arrangement with the person to enable you operates under them. Through them you can do all necessary things there and if anything done wrong by your aircraft, it is the owner, who have operationally certificate that we know and we hold the person responsible. And because they don’t like to lose the certificate they will guide you to do good things at all-time. This is how we manages all jet operators ALSO READ: NCAA Warns pilots, airlines operators during hazardous weather conditions  About 27 Investors were reported seeking to invest in Nigeria Aviation. Looking at airport it seems no new airline operation has started. What is the position of the 27investors in process?  Yes, at one time or others we have people that applied to do aviation business, yes at one time 27, even at one time 29 of them. Among those investors, we have only one or two that has gotten their air operating certificates because when they applied to us for coming into business just like you hard. Sometimes 27 and sometimes 29, they have to go through five phases or stages. If they are okay, then we give them the air operating certificate (AOC) for operations. Without the AOC, you cannot run an airline; it is the same practices all over the world. If you follow all the five phases to the end then you get your AOC that means earlier you complete the process through the five stages the early your operations will start. As soon as you completed stage one, you move to stage two from stage two to three and so on and forth. Every stage has the requirements you have to have items in place already not I will have them later but you got them already for the inspectors. But oftentimes, those number of investors are in different stages of process and sometimes, some investors Will  not  show up for long after getting the requirements details or after stage one, they never show up again. So it is the investors themselves that keeps the process long because they didn’t complete to the five stages or phases as early as possible. Especially fourth stages, that is, if you are seeking to invest in airline passengers so that you can be flying to specific place. As at this stage, NCAA staff (pilots) who responsible to inspect the operational readiness or conditions as per requirements, will follow your pilot and other crew members to and fro the route without passengers, inform of test run the route along with the staffers of the airline seeking for register. Investors after done one stage may not come back again to continue to the next stage, sometime, even four years. And then, they would say NCAA that is delaying the process, how? The NCAA is always being set, if you the potential investor can finish the registration process within the week. So far they have capacity to complete all five stages without omit one or have deficiency in any of the stages. Is when you have done all the stages that your Aircraft Operating Certificate will be given to you to go and operates. If not, you can’t operate in anywhere in the world. As we speak, close to 27 of them that applied, only one of them that got the certificate.   How preparedness and soon to Aviation Corporate Office’s relocation to Abuja?  Well, I do not think is an issue, the movement to Abuja is not a new thing. The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) corporate headquarters is in Abuja over nine years now. Our corporate headquarter is at Abuja. Lagos is our operational head quarter, we are formerly here as corporate headquarter but we since moved to Abuja. Now, the movement, people talk about is something we are doing  in phases because at the moment, we are rebuilding our corporate  headquarter in Abuja, under construction is not yet completed mean that  there still works to be done but the movement is like Abuja is our office let maintain present there. We have regional office in Abuja already that is there existing but corporate headquarter the management saying let go back there as at, it is and ofcourse, it be done in phases meaning that, as there is provisions office and any other facilities for the staff, we start going back there in that other. It is in passes, so is not new to us, any staff in services of the authority knows. He or She knows that is time to work anywhere but any arraignment needed for the location to be okay, will be provided. We wouldn’t put our staff on transfer or deploy to go and suffer, there will be appropriate time and they will be mobilise for that purposes in phases.  In follow up, why should aviation relocate? The federal government made a policy that all federal agencies should maintain their present in Abuja within the seat of power which is at Abuja. The issue is this, our corporate headquarter is in Abuja. Our operational headquarter is in Lagos. Why do we call operational headquarter? Because what we are created to oversight, 60 percent of that is in Lagos, so that is the reason you see our presence is not demising in Lagos. Whether you like it or not, there is always a need for our CEO to be in Abuja for one thing or others as it required by the federal government. For instance, there are so many committees as required by federal government that involves aviation sector. So we must have our corporate at Abuja as the seat of government for policy purposes and Lagos operational headquarters that is why Director General and other staffers are here in full force. We have similar country,  like US, where their Federal Aviation still maintaining it strong present in New York former capital due to the volume of airplanes to the place instead of Washington DC as a present seat of power but they have  their corporate headquarter in Washington DC, so is Nigeria’s case. We have strong presence in Lagos as operational headquarters because what we are created to oversight have 60 percent in Lagos while we need to established our corporate office in Abuja been a seat of government.  The Caption Photo: The General Manager and the Head, Public Affairs of Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA), Samuel Ayodele Adurogboye