The Ondo State Community and Social Development Agency has said no fewer than 229 micro projects had been completed out of 252 projects in communities across the 18 local government areas of the state. The projects, which were said to be part of the World Bank-assisted programmes, in the state, included construction and rehabilitation of roads, bridges, classrooms and boreholes among others in the beneficiary communities. According to the Operation Manager of the CSDP, Mr. Olumide Igbaroola, the projects were community-driven development approach with the overall goal to improve access services for human development in the state. Igbaroola explained that the projects were meant to support and empower the communities and local governments for sustainable increase access by the poor people to improve social and natural resource infrastructural services. He said the first phase of the project commenced in 2009 with World Bank financing the project with $5m while the state released a sum of N345m as its counterpart fund. He noted that many communities from the state benefitted from the first phase of the scheme but said it was winded down in 2014 He said, “The success story of the first phase brings about additional financing which commenced in June 2015 with more emphasis on gender and vulnerable groups “As at November 2018, about 59 projects have been approved and funded by the agency while the implementation was carried out by the Community Project Management Commission and completed. Igbaroola further explained that the communities were allowed to participate in the process from the beginning to give them the sense of belonging, saying “this will allow them to take proper care of the projects because of their financial and other involvements.” “The project emphasises equal opportunity hence gives voice to the voiceless in the community. Gender and vulnerable are allowed to participate even their needs are given priority in any community of intervention,” he stated. He noted that for the intervention of the agency in any community, the Expression of Interest would be received by the agency from the community after which the agency would visit the community to verify their claims, prioritise their needs, implement, monitor and maintain the projects.