WorldRemit research shows that switching from offline into digital remittances could free up a further $825 million for education worldwide New research from the digital money transfer service WorldRemit shows tens of thousands of Nigerian children are in school, have access to books and educational supplies, and are more likely to study and less likely to work due to international remittances.  Nigeria is the largest remittance-receiving country in Africa, with annual figures now at a record $25bn. This new research reveals the wide-ranging benefits of remittances to children’s education.  The findings were calculated using data from UNESCO, the World Bank, and Nigeria’s latest national household survey. Approximately 220 million children are not in school in low and middle income countries. Of these, over 12 million live in Nigeria, one of the highest numbers of out-of-school of children in the world. Key results include:  WorldRemit also calculates that globally, if traditional, cash-based money transfers were replaced by lower-cost digital alternatives, an additional $825 million would be unlocked for families to spend on children’s education. Savings from “going digital” could pay for the equivalent of 20 million school uniforms, 30 million school books and 16 million sets of school supplies for children in low and middle income countries.  Pardon Mujakachi, Country Director, Nigeria at WorldRemit, said: “As millions of children in Nigeria start a new school year, our research is a timely reminder that the contributions of the diaspora are vital to the education of 200,000 children across the country. Switching to digital remittances would help maximise that even further.  With global remittances are predicted to rise in 2019, even more children are set to benefit.”  WorldRemit is one of the leading digital money transfer companies for the Nigerian diaspora. Customer surveys reveal that education is one of the top priorities for Nigerians living abroad, with many saying they support the schooling of children back home.  WorldRemit customers complete 1.3 million transfers every month from over 50 countries to over 145 destinations. More than half of its transfers go to Africa.  Visit the WorldRemit website for more information on how to send money to Nigeria with just a few taps on your phone.  About WorldRemit: WorldRemit is changing the way people send money. It’s easy – just open the app or visit the website – no more agents:  WorldRemit’s global headquarters are in London, UK with offices in the United States, Canada, South Africa, Singapore, the Philippines, Japan, Australia and New Zealand.