It was an exciting weekend as Ecobank staff stormed markets across the country to bring easy and convenient banking services to Nigerians, especially businesses, and more possibilities for growth.  EcobankPay and Xpress Point were stars of the storm, which form a critical part of our digital offering, aimed at boosting Nigeria and Africa’s digital economy.  “We will not rest until we serve you better. #EcobankPay and #XpressPoint buzzing in Alaba, Badore, Victoria Island, Abuja, Kaduna, Port Harcourt, Kano, Ibadan, Osun, Kwara, Akwa-Ibom joining 32 other countries in Africa. We are determined to support the building of a better Africa.  #EcobankOn for a #CashlessNigeria”  said Ecobank Nigeria Managing Director, Patrick Akinwuntan on twitter this past Saturday https://twitter.com/PAkinwuntan/status/1086617122598457349  Leading product for the storm was EcobankPay, which allows businesses/individuals to receive instant payment into their accounts when Ecobank and non-Ecobank customers scan their QR Code or use their terminal ID on USSD for goods and services.   All that is needed is a phone for both the customer and the merchant, allowing them to receive payments anytime, anywhere unlike POS or cash, therefore making doing business easier and more convenient.  EcobankPay is the only product in the market allowing merchants to receive mCash, mVISA and MasterPass payments thus simplifying business for merchant, who no longer need to manage accounts across financial institutions for various payment channels as interoperability lowers cost and QR code removes need of having a point of sale (PoS).   Xpress Point was also part of the drive, which allows customers to digitize or liquidate their cash by depositing and withdrawing cash closer to home using their phone anywhere they see Ecobank Xpress Point sign.  By offering EcobankPay and XpressPoint services, Nigerian businesses save time and money spent in collecting, counting, securing and banking cash bringing cost savings to their business, and more importantly, in the near future their cashflow shall allow them access to other financial services such as loans, insurance and more to grow their business.  We hope more businesses can join the #CashlessNigeria initiative by offering their customers simpler payments and digitization of cash. “We will relentlessly work to bring our digital to every household and make money management moreeasy, reliable and fast.  Ecobank offers a wide range of digital financial services for businesses – from straight-forward cash management to payment tools that capture their turnover securely, which come with e-Alerts of debits and credits on your account sent by push notiffications, SMS and email,” said Ayo Olaiya, Head of Transaction Services Group, Ecobank Nigeria.  Ecobank Market storm continues across the country every Tuesday and Saturday, we look forward to seeing and bringing you on this journey. 