The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control said it confiscated fake drugs worth N60m from a warehouse in Lagos. This was contained in a press statement signed by the Director-General, NAFDAC, Prof Moji Adeyeye, on Monday. She said, “Following a tip-off by a concerned citizen, officers of the Investigation and Enforcement Directorate of the NAFDAC and the police stormed the supermarket and warehouse owned by one Mr Nzube at the trade fair complex in Lagos. “The warehouse was raided for possession, storage, importation, sales and distribution of dangerous and unregistered cosmetics. “Found in the store were Glutathione injection, Herbal Skin Doctor Collagen Ampoules, Lansexin in vial bottles, Kojic-San injection face cream, and B.F.G.F Collagen Polypeptide in vial bottles, among other cosmetics.” The NAFDAC DG said that the products were allegedly imported from China, Malaysia, the Philippines and Dubai. She added, “Five trucks of about 56 assorted unregistered cosmetic products, worth over N60m were successfully evacuated from the warehouse. “The Glutathione injections and skin whitening pills are harmful and have several adverse effects including Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, skin cancer/melanoma, kidney dysfunctions and failure, as well as having an adverse effect on the liver.” Adeyeye appealed to Nigerians to, as part of their civic responsibility, report suspected incidences of counterfeiting and adulteration of cosmetics, drug, food and medical devices to NAFDAC for prompt regulatory and legal actions. This is the first seizure by NAFDAC this year. In 2018, the agency reported that it had seized containers of tramadol worth N193bn. Adeyeye said the seizures were made in collaboration with the Nigeria Customs Service, during a joint examination of containers at the Apapa Port, Lagos. She explained that 23 out of 80 40ft containers on the agency’s watch list since November 2017 were examined on Wednesday, November 14 and Thursday, November 15 and they contained tramadol. The NAFDAC boss said the prevention of the dangerous drugs from entering into the Nigerian markets would prevent an insurgency, armed robbery and other vices. 