In its resolve to strategically position itself for better service delivery, corporate reengineering and the next level strategic growth, SIFAX Group, a multinational corporation with diverse interests in Maritime, Aviation, Haulage & Logistics, Oil & Gas and Hospitality, has appointed a new Group Managing Director, Mr. Adekunle AbdulRazaq Oyinloye. He is the immediate past Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of The Infrastructure Bank. Oyinloye, a graduate of Economics from the Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, also possesses post-graduate degrees – M.Sc, Economics (University of Lagos), M.Sc, Banking & Finance (University of Ibadan) as well as the Strategic Management Certificate from the Columbia Business School, Columbia University, New York. He has, in the last eighteen years, held senior management positions in major financial institutions in Nigeria, including The Infrastructure Bank Plc, Unity Bank Plc and Pacific Bank. In his last assignment as the Managing Director of The Infrastructure Bank, Oyinloye led a team of young enthusiastic professional to achieve a major turnaround for the bank by recording profitable operations within two years, which is a major first in the bank’s twenty years of existence. His core area of expertise includes strategic planning, policy & procedure development, team building & performance improvement, finance, budgeting & cost management, among others. According to Dr. Taiwo Afolabi (MON), Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group, the appointment of the new Group Managing Director is in line with the Group’s vision of strategically positioning itself for its next level strategic phase and noted that Oyinloye will bring his rich professional experience to bear on the operations of the company. “Recently, the company realized the need to restructure its workforce, especially at the senior management level due to its expanding business operations and resolve to provide better service delivery for its clients and better returns for all the stakeholders. As we seek to achieve maximum operational efficiency, there is a need to fill key positions in the Group with the high-calibre individuals with the right experience, expertise, capacity and competence. This new appointment will pave way for many more internal restructuring and reorganization which will better position the company for its next level strategic growth phase. “We are delighted that Mr. Oyinloye accepted to join us and be part of the big vision we are trying to achieve in SIFAX Group. We are convinced his wealth of experience will benefit the company greatly,” he said Oyinloye has been privileged to serve on the board of several organisations which include Africa InfraFund Plus, International Aviation College, Kwara, Echostones Nigeria Limited, Prime Plus Estate Services Limited, Unity Bank Plc, UnityKapital Assurance Plc (now known as Veritas Assurance Plc),  and he is also a fellow of institutions such as Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria, Chartered Institute of Marketing Nigeria, Institute of Credit Administration, Institute of Direct Marketing and a member of the Institute of Directors.