Follow-up to the 2019 Federal Government Budget, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) in its position as a pivotal of the Nigeria economy in a statement released said that as a necessary part of the readiness assessment and the resulting action plan, Government should put in place the necessary framework to protect and boost the capacity of the manufacturing sector to thrive in the continental free trade area MAN further said consequently, for the budget to be effective there is needed to sustain expansionary policy stance while ensuring a sufficient synthesis of monetary and fiscal policies.  By implication, lending rate should moderate through development windows while taxes and levies should either drop or remain unchanged and backed by incentives. “The proposed capital expenditure budget for Power, works and housing infrastructure was N408.03 billion representing 26.5% reduction from N555.88 proposed in 2018. Although the budget touched on key project (construction of new power plants and maintenance of existing ones; rehabilitation of rail tracts; and construction/rehabilitation of roads infrastructure across the country) that will support economic activities if completed but the allocation appears insufficient, in the light of the prevailing infrastructure deficit.  MAN pointed out that the 2019 Budget tagged “Budget of Continuity” has important provisions aimed at reinforcing and building on the recent accomplishment of the economy. Citing example of inadequate electricity supply from the national grid and the bad condition of roads across the country remain core challenges of the manufacturing sector.  Therefore, the N1.02 billion allocation for the Mambilla Hydro Power project; N400 million for construction of 215MW LPFO/ Gas Power station Kaduna; N388.5 million for Kashimbilla transmission; and N398 million for Fast Power Programme Accelerated Gas and Solar Power Generation are welcome developments.  “Budgeted capital allocation to the development of Transportation infrastructure is N194.24 billion, indicating 26.2% reduction from N263.10 billion allocation in 2018.  “The N80.22 billion allocation for counterpart funding for railway projects (Lagos-Kano; Calabar-Lagos; Ajaokuta-Itakpe-Aladja; Port Harcourt-Maiduguri, etc) and the N27.12 billion allocation for rehabilitation of rail tracts and general maintenance/running of the rails system are critical.  “Global evidence has shown that no country in the world had ever fully industrialized without a robust railway system. “However, no mention is made of the need to dredge the various ports outside Lagos State to decongest Tin Can and Wharf ports and reduce the cost of moving goods from ports to the factories.  “The allocation to Agriculture and Rural Development is N80.29 billion which is 32.5% lower than N118.98 billion allocation of 2018.   Agriculture development is very critical to the growth and development of any country. Agriculture is critical to industry raw-materials supply and food security in the country.  It is therefore important to pay significant attention to the agricultural development through better budget allocation while leveraging on backward integration. Without a better agriculture performance, it will be very difficult to achieve the economic growth and inflationary assumptions made in the 2019 budget.  Therefore, the N15.66 billion allocation for Promotion and Development of Agriculture Value Chain across more than 30 different commodities and N2.69 billion for Extension Services including other projects identified in the budget are commendable.  “The proposed allocation of N61.07 billion for the development of ITID is a good one as ITID is clearly becoming increasingly critical following the continuous advancement in global integration.  On the front burner of national discuss is the issue of AfCFTA which should address not just market access but improvement in production capacity to trade.  Therefore, the N42 billion allocation for the  development of the Special Economic Zone Projects across the geopolitical zones to drive manufacturing/exports; Export-Expansion Grant (EEG); N5.12 billion (though grossly insufficient to drive the needed impetus)  allocation in the form of tax credit to support export through the Export Expansion Grant;  the N15 million allocation for the recapitalization of Bank of Industry (BOI) and Bank of Agriculture (BoA); and the N10 billion provided as a grant to BOI to subsidize interest rate charged on loans to SMEs  are  very important developments. However, they all fall short of the expectation of stakeholders and may limit the achievable success level in 2019.  “In the proposed budget, N47.29 billion allocated to education development which indicates 23.4% reduction from N61.73 billion allocation in 2018.  MAN equally pointed out that the education budget has consistently been inadequate, particularly when you compare with the huge funding need of the various tiers of learning in the country.  “The share of education to national budget in the country has also been consistently below the global benchmark of at least 30%.  It is important therefore that more allocation should be made for the development of the sector, considering that education is critical to the long-term growth of the economy, including research and development. However, MAN applauded the government for the N3billion Provision of Security Infrastructure in 104 Colleges and N6.8billion allocation for Scholarship allowances as positive developments.  “In the proposed budgetary allocation, health development got N50.15 billion compare with N71.22 billion of 2018 representing 29.6% lower to the previous year. MAN said Nigeria has over the years been grabbling with health issues, while life expectancy has persistently been low at about 50 years in the country. The fact remains that no nation whose citizens are unhealthy can possibly make industrial headway; little wonder, it is said that health is wealth. Association therefore stressed that “it is important therefore that the budgetary allocation for health infrastructure should be commensurate with our ambition to meet the medical needs of the citizenry. 