Nigeria’s leading technology public relations firm and publisher of Fintech Africa, eMaginations Comm, has unveiled a budget friendly press release distribution platform for Fintech firms in Africa. The budget friendly press release distribution platform, www.fintechafricapressreleases.com, is a self-service website as users can easily upload their press releases on the site unaided while payment for service is also web-driven and covers latest industry updates in FinTech, BankingTech, PayTech, RegTech, WealthTech, LendTech and InsurTech among others. The site, which is hosted at www.fintechafricapressreleases.com connects the fintech firms seamlessly to thousands of professional journalists, influential writers and correspondents who are reporting the fintech beats for mainstream newsrooms and blogs across the continent.  In a statement signed by the CEO of eMaginations and Editor-in-Chief of Fintech Africa, Sola Fanawopo, the Fintech press releases distribution platform is a product of long and demanding research, which is meant to offer strategic product for the Fintech ecosystem and the industry at large.  Besides creating different robust platforms to accommodate and engage thousands of Fintech innovators and strategists who peopled the ecosystem in Nigeria and Africa, eMaginations is the number one Fintech content driver that is pushing Fintech thought leadership to the media.  “The fintech-focused, self-service and budget-friendly press release distribution platform is one of the ways we are serving the Fintech ecosystem and Fintech firms in Nigeria and Africa. Our focus is on developing strategic services to serve the Fintech ecosystem through adopting different approaches such as bespoke events, Whatsapp-based engagements, web-driven platform and  magazine”, Fanawopo said.  The fintech press release distribution platform is built to address public relations needs of most Fintech firms and IT startups that are bootstrapping and conscious of their budget and; as such cannot afford the services of the traditional public relations agencies but are “desirous of telling their stories, celebrate milestones and share their perspectives on the growth and development of the fintech sector”.  In addition to other benefits, user’s press release would also be published on Fintech Africa (www.financialtechnologyafrica.com) and would be distributed to all leading stakeholders in the industry via Fintech Africa’s newsletter.  The fintech, budget friendly press release distribution platform is a partner to major organizers of fintech events and conferences and these partners would cover events, write and share reports to the media via www.fintechafricapressreleases.com.   The Caption Photo: the CEO of eMaginations and Editor-in-Chief of Fintech Africa, Sola Fanawopo