National Insurance and Pension Correspondents (NAIPCO), has announced that the Leadway Journalism Training initiative will hold on Wednesday, 23rd January. Over 40 journalists covering the Insurance and Pensions Beats for Print, electronic and online media platforms in the country are expected at the one-day capacity building and re-tooling workshop scheduled to hold at the Leadway Academy in Lagos. In a statement, the Head, Corporate Communications/Services, Leadway Assurance, Ms. Olubunmi Adeleye, said this edition of the training would focus on critical areas of the Insurance sector such as endowment plans, maintaining operational standards in insurance as well as other areas relating to Pensions. Adeleye said the organization of the quarterly training initiative by Leadway Assurance is in recognition of the need for journalists to be abreast of latest industry trends both locally and globally given their important role as purveyors of news and information that the insuring and un-insuring public depend on to form opinions about insurance and the economy. “The core of Leadway’s corporate philosophy is hinged on ensuring the growth and sustainability of the Nigerian economy through deepening education and access to insurance and financial services. In achieving this objective, we see the media as a critical partner and stakeholder, hence the need to collaborate”, she stated. The Leadway Assurance spokeswoman further expressed the hope that “the Leadway Journalism Training initiative would continue to help participating journalists improve their mastery of the inner workings and technicalities of the insurance sector, causing stakeholders in the industry to benefit more from the professional interventions and engagements of the media in a win-win manner.” According to the record, the maiden edition of the Leadway Journalism Training project held in October 2017, when Leadway Assurance collaborated with NAIPCO to organize the first of its kind comprehensive training workshop for members as part of the 2017 NAIPCO Conference to facilitate capacity building for insurance correspondents. For the training to holds this year 2019 ,showed that LeadWay Assurance Management are ready to sustain and improve the level of reporting industry by men of journalism profession. Leadway Assurance is one of Nigeria’s foremost insurance service companies with a reputation for service efficiency and customer reliability. The organization is committed to bridging the financial protection gap and increasing the rate of insurance penetration in Nigeria.