l-r: Head Lagos Office, Consumer Protection Council, (CPC)  Susie Onwuka; Group Executive, Digital & Consumer Banking, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, Anant Rao; Officer, Lagos Office,  CPC,  Abideen Onifade; Executive Director, UBA Plc,  Liadi Ayoku;  Regional Head, Lagos , UBA Plc , Aminat Tunji-Akinwande;  Marketing Monitoring and Enforcement Officer, National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Ayeniyi Idowu;  and Head, Retail Liabilities, UBA Plc, Tomiwa Sotiloye,  at  the First Quarter Draw of  UBA Wise Savers Promo where 20 Savings Account Holders  won N1.5m  each,  in Lagos on Tuesday. Pan-African financial institution, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc has rewarded 20 loyal customers with N1,500,000 each, in the first edition of its quarterly draw for the ongoing UBA Wise Savers Promo, which was held at the bank’s headquarters in Lagos on Tuesday.  At the event, a total of N30,000,000 was won by 20 lucky customers who were selected following a draw that was witnessed by key regulatory officials including representatives of the National Lottery Regulatory Commission, (NLRC); Lagos State Lottery, Board, (LSLB) Consumer Protection Council (CPC) as well as members of the media.  To qualify for the draws, new and existing customers of the bank are expected to save at least N10,000 each month for three consecutive months, or N30,000 for 90 days in the  promo, which will run for the rest of the year. Apart from the N30 million won by 20 customers on Tuesday,  another N90 million is still expected to be won by 60 more loyal customers in the remaining three quarters of the year.  The winners, who cut across all regions of the country, are: Nnadumije, Ebube Dawn; Onwochei Christiana Okwukwe; Eze Mathias Nnaji; Christian N Orie; Uka, Okwudiri; Okata Stephen Uche; Okafor Onyinye Esther; Nwanekezi Chimezie Jude; Ayomide V Yahaya and Olanegan, Oyetunde Keji.  Others are Emmanuel Onu Chidozie; Mohammed Fatima; Aminu, Mustapha; James Nanre; Pahinti Albert; Emmanuel O Adeniji; Jaki Movihinze Mercy; Saminu Muritala Mohammed; Ezeh Raphael Uballa; Uchenna Iheji.  When contacted on the phone, one of the 20 lucky winners; Nnadumije, Ebube Dawn, excitedly  expressed gratitude to the bank and said he was happy to be a customer of the bank. He thanked the bank, and said the move was thoughtful and will help to enrich customers especially during these trying economic times.  The Group Executive, Digital and Consumer Banking, Mr. Anant Rao, who addressed participants at the event, said the promo was launched as part of the bank’s initiatives towards prioritising customers. He added that customers who save consistently would be rewarded in order to promote the financial inclusion initiatives of the bank.  ‘We believe it is time we rewarded our customers who have been very loyal over the years. Without them, we would not have made the giant strides attained thus far’ .  According to Rao, “Because our customers are invaluable to all that we do, we listen and give them nothing short of the best that they deserve’ “We remain committed to consistently improving customer service and rewarding our loyal customers. The Wise Savers Promo seeks to compliment current initiatives aimed at growing savings,” he noted.  United Bank for Africa Plc is a leading pan-African financial services group, with presence in 20 African countries, as well as the United Kingdom, the United States of America and France. UBA was incorporated in Nigeria as a limited liability company after taking over the assets of the British and French Bank Limited who had been operating in Nigeria since 1949.  The United Bank for Africa merged with Standard Trust Bank in 2005 and from a single country operation founded in 1949 in Nigeria – Africa’s largest economy – UBA has become one of the leading providers of banking and other financial services on the African continent.  The Bank provides services to over15 million customers globally, through one of the most diverse service channels in sub-Saharan Africa, with over 1,000 branches and customer touch points and robust online and mobile banking platforms.   Group Executive, Digital & Consumer Banking, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc,  Anant Rao; Officer, Consumer Protection Council (CPC), Abideen Onifade;   Executive Director, UBA Plc, Liadi Ayoku; Regional Head Lagos, UBA Plc, Aminat Tunji-Akinwande; Head, Retail Liabilities, UBA Plc, Tomiwa Sotiloye;  and Marketing Monitoring and Enforcement Officer, National Lottery Regulatory Commission,  Nwanneka Ezeani,  at  the First Quarter Draw of  UBA Wise Savers Promo where 20 Savings Account Holders  won N1.5m  each,  in Lagos on Tuesday  Group Head, Customer Service and Complaints Management, United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, Prince Ayewoh; Group Executive, Digital & Consumer Banking, UBA Plc, Anant Rao; Officer CPC Lagos Office, Abideen Onifade;   Executive Director, UBA Plc, Mr Liadi Ayoku; Regional Head, Lagos, UBA Plc; Aminat Tunji-Akinwande; Head, Retail Liabilities, Tomiwa Sotiloye; Marketing Monitoring and Enforcement Officer, National Lottery Regulatory Commission,  Nwanneka Ezeani; and  Coordinator, Advertising Practitioners Council of Nigeria(APCON), Rahmon Babatope Rafiu,  at  the First Quarter Draw of  UBA Wise Savers Promo where 20 Savings Account Holders  won N1.5m  each,  in Lagos on Tuesday