As general election is around the corner, the Igala people seem to be in dilemma as it regards to Kogi East Senatorial District under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Citing example of the same person over sixteen years under the present dispensation, the people from God chosen areas, have been forced to settle for an ordinary representation in the National Assembly – the kind that has added very little or nothing to their quality of living.  On that note those of Kogi East youths and other constituents to resolve “to rally round a common cause that will ultimately produce Dr. Victor Alewo Adoji of the African Democratic Congress (ADC) as the next Senator “to represent Igala people come 2019 by God’s grace.”  They stated that Adoji has the requisite qualities to take development to Kogi East and that he is a man with vision and determination to get things done properly for Igala people as a senator.  They continued by saying, “We can’t continue to wallow in this politics of stagnation where some wicked few individuals will gather together to oppose everything that is good for our land.  “Igala region has suffered so much neglect despite the fact that we have several opportunities to develop, but we have been suffering so much neglect because of the attitude of some of our leaders.”  Now that we are in the season of decision making of choosing who will stands strong for Igala at National Assembly; a season where making the wrong choice of who will represent us this time around will consign Igala to yet another four years of perpetual retrogression. Therefore, as the buildup to the general elections gathers momentum, the people of Kogi East Senatorial District are praying for those in PDP who knew how it is importance to have creditable person who will speak for us as Igala, confidently at the National Assembly in 2019 and beyond.  Anything less than a suitable candidate will attract rebellion from the voters, and the people, especially if the current occupant gets the ticket either automatic or any form.  It is not new to those who have followed the politics of Kogi East Senatorial District closely for two decades. If not for anything else, we will always be remembered one person representing Kogi East at the National Assembly for 16 years (House of Representatives – eight years and in the Senate for another eight years) with nothing to show for it. According to some youths closed to the senator, the only dividends of democracy accruing from our representative are seeing his fine face when another election season is due. Also confirmed that some did not even know him but listening to political sweet words when they are soliciting votes for next tenure.  With records available, that is from 2011 through to 2018, nothing, the said senator can be tagged with as a meaningful development in any part of Kogi East Senatorial District, not even in his own local community with his influence as chairman, Senate Committee on SEGS and others.  The only stream sustaining to a community and the neighborhood to the said senator which is about four kilometers away disclosed that their representative only comes here in the night and disappears before dawn since he became a senator.  As you can see we have no potable water, no electricity and other basic infrastructures.” Even it was mentioned by group of youth within the community where the senator as the Chairman; Senate Committee on Sustainable Development Goals (SEGS), come from that there is “no project that has come to our land”.  Some Igala youths recently spoke the minds of the entire youths of the district. According to them, the said senator is a liability on the good people of Kogi East and he has no political relevance in the chamber both the region and at the national level. The youths are crying out, very loud at that, that as the longest-serving federal lawmaker from Kogi East, he has serially failed them “in terms of good legislation, provision of amenities through constituency projects and youth empowerment.”  The Kogi East people are going, albeit caps in hands to God, to the gods, and to whatever power they believe in, to yarn some miracle intervention of sorts, so that as the Peoples Democratic Party has chosen its candidates for Kogi East’s representative, they have settled for less quality candidate who cannot better their lots, therefore their voice for another brand-new senator and party take their hallowed seats in the hallowed chamber come 2019 instead of PDP’s candidate.  Even as Igala people do not trust the All Progressives Congress promise-and-fail kind of politics, chances are that they may be better than PDP in coming 2019 election. As the incumbent senator was returned to contest on the platform of PDP, chances are Dekina/Basa even Ankpa/Omala will go for ADC. This will bring a new chapter of failed promises; it could be the last resort just to teach the both parties lesson with new senator and ADC in the Kogi East.  Since, PDP in the Kogi East failed to acknowledge that there is in need of a new face that can energize their base. There is so much anxiety at the moment because the current occupant as a product is not strong enough to move market for the party in the face of the electorate. Just think of it, he has never won the primaries. He gets the ticket through the back door (court).  For the leaderships of PDP to allowed the said senator to continue, has brought burning issue that may consume the party in Kogi East within the tribe such as marginalization of others axis within the zone. For instance, Kogi East Senatorial district is divided into three axis/zones with nine local government areas and three federal constituencies. The zone includes the Idah axis which comprises: Idah, Ibaji, Igalamela/Odolu and Ofu; while Dekina axis comprises: Dekina, Bassa and Ankpa axis consists of the Ankpa, Olamaboro and Omala respectively.  The choices before the political class and the electorate are between progress and retrogression, unity and disunity, equity and inequity; and of course a wide prospect of prosperity for millions and not just the elite few.  Now political analysts are pointing out that by implication since 1999 till date, Idah Federal Constituency (comprising Idah/Ofu/Igalamela-Odolu/Ibaji ) despite its massive voter strength has not produced a senator. This clearly indicates that equity has been conspicuously overlooked in favour of other side.  One may argue that several indigenes of Idah Federal Constituency were beneficiaries of high-profile political appointments. But we need to remember that an appointment is a prerogative of the chief executive and is not necessarily a true representation of the desire of the masses. The clamouring for a Kogi East senator of Idah extraction has never been this deafening. It is a major topic of discussion where two or more are gathering. Since the leaders of the PDP in Kogi State are not serious about balancing this highly lopsided senatorial representation in 2019, and are also not serious about retaining the massive votes of Idah, Igalamela-Odolu/Ofu/Ibaji citizens, then, they must act quickly and smartly to exterminate the political oppression, subjugation and marginalisation that has been handed down on these politically sensitive people for so long.  Idah Federal constituency has one of the largest voting populations in Kogi State. Collection of PVC in the four local government areas has been impressive. Let the leadership of Igala in PDP think about the senate to another constituency besides Idah in 2019, they should have a rethink. Several able-bodied individuals with vast experience and impeccable records of hard work, honesty and credibility are very ready and willing to join the senatorial race in 2019. The “systematic marginalisation” of Idah Federal Constituency must be brought to a halt. The recycling of “expired” familiar names with dismal performances in the senate must also stop. Fresh ideas, fresh approach and better results in 2019 are what the Kogi East people demand and Idah Federal Constituency has a large pool of intelligent, honest and hardworking persons that are ready, able and willing to do the job.  The people know this. The party knows this. Apparently, our distinguished senator himself is well aware. That explains the reason he has been going from pillar to post, seeking crude means to actualize his dream of going back to the senate to warm the seat on behalf of the Kogi East people. Perhaps that was the motive behind his alleged enlisting of more than a dozen propagandists to carry out a smear campaign so as to truncate the ambition of other leading aspirants in the race.  A whopping N20 million, according to reports was given to a party chieftain to facilitate this smear campaign. And part of their briefs was to make the party hierarchy see other leading aspirants as impostors and agents of the opposition and this involved writing several anonymous letters to some party stakeholders.  The PDP leaderships unfortunately made blunt effort to returned to the senate and elongate the suffering period of Kogi East people. This time, the people will resist him with their precious votes for the candidate of ADC, Dr Victor Alewo Adoji whom across the state is gathering strong supporters to pull out surprise results in 2019 general election.  Igala youth are in agreement said in this 2019, we must have the right and power to end our decades of suffering by keeping our PVCs intact to vote out idle Senator who has failed us over sixteen years.   Below are few words excerpts from DVAA’ social media channel: Maduako Chiedozie My inlaw, you already have people’s mandate becos you have all it takes to deliver. Your senatorial mandate is a project that every good Kogite from your zone must work hard to achieve. I am from Imo married to one of the best daughters of kogi. I support DVAA2019 PROJECT, signed, sealed and delivered!  Makoji Usman Kolofu If I no vote DVAA waiting I gain, DVAA final on my mind. I will have the opportunity to shake him tomorrow when I represent my team igala Mela.  Johnson Adegboyega You’ll be Victorious because you’ve already been tagged Victor…Victory is yours boss.  John Samson As for me i stand with dvaa’ Dr victor is d person dat can savage us from dis predicament  Shaibu Enyo Jibrin Our senator….come 2019 Enegbani Sule Mameh compliment of the season sir, Victory is yours, as we are ready to dance with you after you might have being declare winner.  Safiya Stephanie Musa It is an aberration for incompetent people to aspire for leadership positions in a society where we have countless capable and prepared hands. Time was when the  AK Iyale Abdulkerim DVAA is the next senator representing the good people of Igala Bassa in 2019 election.  Ameh Whizdom DVAA is a man with vision. We are tired of visionless leaders. Pls tell a family about DVAA, and let d family tell another family, also to a friend.  So that come FEBRUARY 2019 DVAA will be d Man representing Kogi East Senatorial District. #ISTANDWITHDVAA 