The Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) has said the refund of $5.4billion is the only option left for the Federal Government to pull out of the privatisation of the power sector. It said globally, India is the only country that has ever adopted the Nigerian model of privatisation in selling the assets of the defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN). Its Managing Director, Mr. Mohammed Gur Usman, said Nigerians were scoring the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration on what is on ground, forgetting about the problems created by previous administrations. “Nobody is looking at the hole that the previous administrations put Nigeria into. This is what this government has inherited. Now, the option of cancelling the privatisation is $5.4billion,” he told The Nation in Abuja. The management of the power firm has already reached out to Ogun State government as high compensation demand for the right of way (RoW) has stalled the $200million transmission project. He added that the project was being financed by the Japanese government through its Japanese International Corporation Agency (JICA). He said it was expected to address the power transmission challenge between Ogun and Lagos states and wheel power to the highly industrialised axis. But what is delaying the project, according to the TCN boss, is that the demand for compensation for the right of way is too high. He said: “This project has been completed and we have done the design, but what is stalling the project is that the compensation for the right of way is too high. So, we are working with Ogun State government through collaboration where they are working to reduce the cost.” He said the project, the first of its kind, is for the installation of four 330KV substations between Lagos and Ogun. “We are putting four 330KV substations between Lagos and Ogun. For your information, this is the first time in the history of Nigeria that more than one 330KV substations are being built in the same location,” he said. Usman, however, revealed that once the company settles the compensation of right-of-way issue with the state, it will advertise the project.