The Federal Road Safety Corps, Lagos State Command, has inaugurated 40 special marshals at the Murtala Muhammed Airport Terminal Two, Lagos. The Special Marshals unit is expected to administer road safety standards and other relevant measures aimed at ensuring orderliness around the airport and other parts of the country. The partnership, which is between FRSC and the management of Bi-Courtney Aviation Services Limited, operators of the MMA2, forms part of the Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives of BASL towards ensuring safety around the airport. The Group Executive Director, BASL, Mr Rodger Whittle, said establishing and maintaining a safe and secure environment was a continuous duty that demanded collective responsibility. According to him, the challenges on the Nigerian road networks, are enormous and require a lot of support beyond the confines of operations of regular marshals of the FRSC. He stated that this informed the initiative of establishing the Special Marshal unit. He said, “As a responsible organisation and a leading brand within the aviation sector, this presents yet another opportunity; among  many, for BASL to contribute its quota to national development within the ambits of the mandate of the FRSC. “We have professionals of diverse fields and capacities across the BASL company present here today, who have volunteered and are committed to be part of this commission; in order to contribute meaningfully to societal safety of lives and property. “At MMA2, the core of our service promise is to ensure seamless passenger facilitation and this, ties very strongly as a CSR initiative central to the fundamentals of our business mandate. We are ever willing and would continue to support and champion initiatives that are geared towards making the society safe, secure, habitable and a better place for all.” The Sector Head of Special Marshal, Lagos Sector Command of the FRSC, Mr Bashiru Adeyemi, said the initiative would contribute to national growth and development. The Lagos State Coordinator of Special Marshal, Mr Olusola Olojede, said the Special Marshal programme offered opportunities for organisations and individuals to give back to the society.