The Seme Area Command of the Nigeria Customs Service generated into the Federal Government coffers a total of  Six billion, two hundred and ninety four million, eight hundred and sixty thousand, one hundred and eighty two Naira ninety eight Kobo only (N6,294,860,182.98) for the period under review. The figure represents about 76% of the revenue target allocated to the command. In a statement endorsed and released by Saidu Nuruddeen Abdullahi, Customs Public Relation Officer of Customs Area Controller, Seme Area Command disclosed that the Command’s Enforcement unit in an aggressive anti-smuggling drive against smugglers and non-compliant stakeholders also effectively combated smuggling activities leading to a total of 1,119 seizures with a duty paid value (DPV) of One billion, three hundred and ninety four million, one hundred and thirty six thousand and twenty three Naira only (N1,394,136,023.00). The seizures include the following items:  The Grand Total for both seizures and revenue is N9,247,809,065.98 OTHER UNITS RENDITION The Command’s helmsman re-stated that the command will deploy more strategies to ensure that all revenue leakages are blocked and stakeholders who are ready to comply with proper procedures and guidelines are adequately sensitized to take advantage of the legitimate process in their transactions. He affirmed that the command is ready to explore all avenues in order to ensure that the new target for the year is not only met but exceeded with the inauguration and resumption of operations at the new Joint border post. The Customs Area Controller reiterated his commitment to continue sanitizing the border command to meet with other international standards. He further warned officers and men of the command not to compromise, but should be committed to the implementation of government fiscal policies. Comptroller UG Mohammed,attributed the success to the commitment and dedication of the officers and men of the command who were ready to sacrifice their lives in the midst of intimidation and threats. He also acknowledged the ethical and administrative support from the Comptroller General of Customs (Col. Hameed Ibrahim Ali Rtd) and his Management Team; he equally extend his appreciation to all sister agencies both locally and internationally.