The Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria has said it will collaborate with other stakeholders in the sector to ensure more relevance in the national economy in 2019. In a statement, the President, CIIN, Mr Eddie Efekoha, said this while delivering his New Year message to members. He said, “As you will recall, the theme of my presidency is focused on ‘advancing insurance education and professionalism’. We have joined hands with all the stakeholders in the insurance industry to explore all avenues to reposition our industry for greater relevance in the nation’s economy by advocating for ethical practice and constant professional development. “This is consistent with our mission to provide world-class manpower with the highest standard of professional and ethical training for operating effectively and efficiently in the Nigerian and international business environment.” While stating that the institute would be 60 years in 2019, he noted that it was a year of reflection on the institute’s journey through the years and its evolution as the premier professional body in Nigeria. “As a body, we are committed to the growth of the insurance industry and will not relent in our contribution to promoting the insurance industry agenda,” he said. Efekoha said that 2019 would likely throw up a lot of interesting challenges as it was an election year. Nevertheless, he added, there would still be a lot of risk elements for insurance outfits to take advantage of. He stated, “My advice to you, our esteemed members, is to seize the initiative and explore as well as exploit all areas of business generation that the year will present in various forms. Creativity must come to the fore in offering products and services to your target audience. Most importantly, we must embrace professionalism and best practices and also uphold the institute’s ethics and values in the course of our business dealings in 2019. “It is my hope that as stakeholders, we will continue to lift the institute higher by actively participating to make the institute’s programmes and activities in 2019 more successful than the previous year.” The president thanked the members for their  contributions and participation in the institute’s programmes during the past year with special reference to the professionals’ forum, education seminar, the graduation ceremonies of both the institute and the Centre for Insurance and Financial Management Studies, the fitness walk, the Ramadan Tafsir and the annual Christmas Carol. “The successes recorded in all these programmes were due to the support and cooperation of members of the Institute for which we are immensely grateful,” he said.