The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry Mines and Agriculture and the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, have advocated a more conducive and investment-friendly environment this year. The National President, the Nigerian Association of Chambers of Commerce, Industry Mines and Agriculture (NACCIMA), Chief Alaba Lawson, called for an upgrade in infrastructure and improvement in the ease of doing business. She said, “The Federal Government must redouble its efforts in improving infrastructure, such as power, roads and rails, as well as improving the ease of doing business. These will bring about positive change in the manufacturing sector, as Nigeria is still a net importer of goods. “NACCIMA as a body of the Organised Private Sector, looks forward to the prompt passage and implementation of the programmes and capital projects outlined in the 2019 budget.” While commenting further on the 2019 budget during an end- of- the -year media chat in Lagos, Lawson lauded the increased allocation to capital projects. She, however, expressed concerns about the implementation of the budget, noting that late implementation had negative effects on the implementation of capital projects from one fiscal year to another. She added, “This position has serious and negative impact, especially for the Small and Medium Enterprises. And given the fact that over 37 million Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises employ over 60 million people in Nigeria, we must pay attention to this issue. “Infrastructure such as roads, power, rail and water are critical to effective functioning of SMEs and the government must pay attention to these areas. We are, therefore, calling for the stringent implementation of capital projects designed to improve infrastructure as listed in the budget.” Similarly, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) traced the woes of manufacturers to high cost of doing business, among other factors. In its perspective on the 2019 budget, the association stated, “Although, the performance of the manufacturing sector in the course of the year has remained positive, the oscillatory nature of the growth, however, remained a source of concern for MAN and other stakeholders. “For instance, in the first quarter of 2018, the growth rate stood at 3.39per cent; fell to 0.68 per cent in the second quarter and later increased to 1.92 per cent in the third quarter of the year. “MAN attributes the poor performance of the sector to high cost of doing business, sluggishness in manufacturing activities due to the heaps of unsold inventory, majorly resulting from the delay in implementation of the budget during the year, and the dwindling purchasing power of the average consumer.” For the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), in its economic outlook for 2019, noted that investors were concerned about the cost of doing business in the country. The Director-General, LCCI, Mr Muda Yusuf, who signed the report, said that what investors were mostly concerned about was productivity and sustainability of the investments as well as competitiveness of firms. “The business environment issues are as critical to the progress of the economy as the macroeconomic conditions.  These are issues of infrastructure, policy issues, tax, regulatory environment, institutional issues, security situation, policy consistency and many more.” He listed some of the issues that impacted the investment climate in 2018 to include the ease of doing business, the power situation, traffic gridlock along Lagos ports roads, the regulatory environment, and arbitrary bank charges, among others. He said investors experienced challenges in the agricultural sector;  in the area of security, land documentation, rigorous process involved in accessing intervention funds from the development banks, inability  to access cheap pesticides and farm inputs, weak agriculture insurance, weak irrigation infrastructure, and  high cost of clearing, among others. Investors equally encountered challenges in the automobile sector, construction and engineering, export, financial services, hotel and tourism sectors, among others. Yusuf maintained that access to and cost of funds had remained a big issue for many domestic investors, adding that with commercial bank lending rate at 20 to 35 per cent, the private sector, especially the SMEs, could not successfully access capital for their businesses.