Some members of the Organised Private Sector have said that the reduction in the budgetary allocation to the agricultural sector compared to 2018 would further contract the growth of the nation’s fragile economy. Speaking in an interview with The Nation, the President of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) Ahmed Mansur decried the reduction in the allocation to agriculture, stating that in 2018 the allocation was over N89 billion and in 2019 it came down to about N80 billion. Mansur regretted that the reduction will affect all aspects of agriculture, especially the value chain which is at the developmental stage. He added agriculture performed well in 2018, stressing that he expected the government to do more in the area of agriculture inputs. He said, “The government should redirect its focus on the key sectors of the economy if it wants to reposition the Nigerian economy for positive growth, and to sustain the growth which would help prevent the country from sleeping back into recession.” He advised regulatory agencies to be on their toes, saying that the implantation of government policies have a significant effect on the business environment and the economy in general. He applauded the government for the inclusion of fertilizer to the banned items, saying, “It is now 42, which is a welcomed development as it would ensure that infant and fragile industries become competitive.” Echoing similar sentiments, the Director General of the Lagos Chambers of Commerce and Industry (LCCI), Dr. Muda Yusuf said on the contrary that the capacity of the government to fund the budget has reduced, adding that the budget size is reduced compared to 2018. Yusuf said, “Secondly, agriculture is not on the exclusive list, it is on the concurrent list. It is not like defense and security that is on the exclusive list of the government. For this reason, the state has to put something on the table also.” He recognised that one of the biggest challenges to agriculture is the issue of availability of land, explaining that the federal government is not directly in charge of the land, but to a large extent, the state has to make available. “There is also the issue of policy, tariffs on the cost of importation of farm implements such as tractors, insecticides, herbicides and other agro-chemicals. Some of these chemicals we are talking about attract very high tariffs. So, if the government decides to scrap tariffs and vat on all agricultural implements and materials, it will go a long way. “The budgetary allocation is important, but we need to look at other things that can sometimes be more important than the budgetary allocation. We need to create incentives, we need to guarantee minimum price. “Some of the things that also affect agriculture are sometimes water resources. It is not directly linked to agriculture, but it very necessary in agriculture, and there is good allocation to agriculture, such as the irrigation project.”  The Caption Photo: The President, Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) ,Engr Ahmed Mansur