The Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (NAHCO Aviance) is West Africa’s leading ground handling service provider with presence in all major Nigerian Airports. Founded in December 1979, it has since grown into a multi-billion Naira company with diversified investments in energy, logistics and development of a free trade zone company. At inception in 1979, the Federal Government, through the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) had the majority equity interest of 60% while four foreign airlines – Air France, British Airways, Sabena and Lufthansa – shared the remaining 40 per cent in various ratios. NAHCO Plc had since gone through changes in its ownership structure following the sales of Government stakes through the privatization exercise of 2005.  From left, Mr. Fortune Idu, President FCI International; Mrs. ChiomaOffor, Head, Customer Experience, nahcoaviance; Mr. Femi Fasuyi, Cargo Services Manager, nahcoaviance; Prince SaheedLasisi, Group Executive Director, Commercial & Business Development, nahcoaviance and Mr. Clifford Omozeghian, Company Secretary & Legal Adviser, during the award of Ground Handling Company of the Year, 2019, to NAHCO by NIGAV, in Lagos over the weekend.  In additional in line with global trends of network airlines divesting from non-core services including ground handling, the shareholder airlines have divested from NAHCO. They, however, remain prime customers of NAHCO. From left, Prince SupoAtobatele, Publisher, Air Transport Magazine; Capt.FolaAkinkuotu, MD, NAMA; Mrs. OlatokunboFagbemi, GMD/CEO, nahcoaviance; and Mr. Herbert Odika, COO, nahcoaviance, at the presentation of the Ground Handling Company of the Year 2019, won by NAHCO, in Lagos at the weekend.  A Company with over 80,000 shareholders was listed on The Nigerian Stock Exchange in 2006 with the symbol ‘NAHCO’. Three institutional investors currently hold more than 5% of the total shares of the company as of January 2019. These major investors are Godsmart Nigeria Limited – 26.95%; Awhua Resources Limited – 7.13%; and White Cowries Industries Limited – 6.98%.