 The Nigeria Telecommunication giant, Globacom, recently in London was adjudged as the “Brand of the Year” 2019-2020 Telecommunications-Mobile at the 2019 World Branding Awards by the organizers of the award The event which was tagged, World Branding Forum (WBF) took place at Kensington Palace, London where Globacom was chosen along with other international brands following a survey and global poll in which over 230,000 consumers participated. The organiser of the WBF disclosed that more than 4,500 brands from 57 countries were nominated for the 2019 Awards in multiple categories. Of these, only 351 brands from 49 countries were declared as winners – 81 brands from 16 countries were awarded in New York and 270 winners from 33 countries awarded in London. Countries that did not receive enough votes did not qualify. Presenting the Award to Globacom at the venue of the event, Chief Executive Officer of the World Branding Forum (WBF), Peter Pek, said the selection of winners followed “a rigorous assessment, evaluation and judging process.” The same principle applied to all the winners from the different continents of the world who were adjudged the best “after rigorous global research, valuation and voting,” according to WBF. Pek declared that Globacom and other winners were awarded points on three streams.  Brand Evaluation was awarded 30%, Public Online Voting 30% and Market Research 40%, giving a total of 100%.  READ ALSO: Globacom-sponsored African Music, Protection of Marine Life Trend on African Voices The inspirational awards gala, the 10th edition in the series, was held at the State Apartments, Kessington Palace, London where Queen Elizabeth II of England had her childhood. Acknowledging the Award as Brand of the Year, Globacom, in a statement, said it would remain committed to empowering its subscribers through unique offerings. The company dedicated the Award to its over 50 million subscribers who have kept faith with the brand. Globacom was honoured alongside other global brands such as Shell, Apple, Netflix, Cadbury, Carlsberg, Nokia, DHL, Adidas, Ferrari, Rolex, Sportify,  Japan Airlines, Auorora and other top brands from the United States of America, Spain, United Kingdom, Kuwait, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan, India, Mexico. The annual World Branding Awards is the premier awards programme of the World Branding Forum, a registered global non-profit organization.