…… Chivita juices brand a “perfect partner” for the holiday season.  For a lot of consumers, the festive season provides the perfect opportunity to unwind from the rigours of the year and reflect on the opportunities of the coming year. The season also creates and enables moments of relaxation, indulgence and merriment. Leading juice brand, Chivita has launched an exciting new campaign tagged “Juice Up this Season with Chivita” to deepen its bond with consumers across the country and position the Chivita juice brand as the “perfect partner” for the holiday season.  The Chivita range of juices – Chivita 100%, Chivita Active, Chi Exotic, Happy Hour by Chivita and Chivita Ice Tea – are the number one choice for consumers. Chivita juices are not only great tasting drinks, but also a daily source of nourishment, rejuvenation and refreshment, to individuals and the whole family.  The “Juice Up this Season with Chivita” campaign which is currently being executed across radio, digital platforms and out of home channels, features a jingle that resonates with the joyous atmosphere that is typical of the Nigerian festive season – family gatherings, hanging out with friends, great meals, merry making, and relaxation. .  The message of the campaign is simple. Whatever the occasion or celebration this season, whenever you need tasty, nourishing goodness, there is a Chivita Juice just for you.  Mr. Deepanjan Roy, Managing Director of Chi Limited, stated that the objective for the “Juice Up this Season with Chivita” campaign was for the brand to share in the love, joy, warmth, happiness and excitement of the season with consumers.  “We are relentlessly driven by the desire to provide great tasting, nutritious and healthy beverages to consumers. The “Juice Up this Season with Chivita” campaign is a reminder to consumers to enjoy special moments, catch up on old friendships, spend quality time with family, and share in the excitement to the season with their favourite Chivita juice brand,” he stated.  About CHI Limited Incorporated in 1980, CHI Limited is a market leader in the food & beverage sector in Nigeria. Each of its product offerings within the juice &dairy beverages and snacks categories in which it operates are category benchmarks which are loved for their taste and high nutrition. With its ISO 22000 certified state of the art manufacturing facility, CHI deploys advanced processing and packaging technology in making all its products.  CHI has established footprints in urban and rural Nigeria through a large network of depot operations across the country. In addition, CHI prides itself as being one of the few Fast Moving Consumer Good (FMCG) companies who export quality food and beverage products to other African countries.  Its passion for excellence and commitment to sustainable development is exemplified in its continuous efforts to provide the best food and beverages to its consumers. Through its continuous investments in manufacturing and related infrastructure projects, CHI currently provides direct and indirect employment to over 112,500 people through its robust value chain.