Though over the years the Federal Government has been repositioning economy in the country, according to the 2020 outlook of Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has a view that failure by government to fix structural constraints with regards to fixing power challenges and rehabilitating deplorable road networks will perpetuate the poor productivity and performance of the sector.  In the LCCI 2019 Economic Review and Outlook For 2020 made available to newsmen on Thursday in Lagos, by the LCCI’s Director-General, Dr Muda Yusuf  also attributed the high cost of doing business, high cost to poor infrastructure, multiplicity of levies, excessive regulations as bottle necks etc.  Yusuf said that while the nation may have recorded improvement on the Ease of Doing Business Ranking due to some recent policy measures, realities on ground would continue to differ if the highlighted challenges were not properly addressed.  The DG said that the performance of the trade sector in 2020 would be shaped by the direction of government policies.  Yusuf anticipated that the manufacturing sector would continue to benefit from the Central Bank of Nigeria’s aggressive credit push.  The LCCI Boss, however, predicted that competition between foreign and local producers would fade on prolonged closure of land borders.  The director general said that headline inflation was expected to trend higher in 2020.  He said this would be driven by implementation of new minimum wage and continued closure of the land border.  Yusuf said that higher Value Added Tax rate of 7.5 per cent and the early disbursement of funds for budget implementation following the return of the budget cycle would also be contributory factors.  “We expect economic growth to remain subdued at around 2 per cent by 2020 as consumer demand, as well as private sector investment, will most likely remain weak.  “In our opinion, continued protectionist measures of government will most likely limit growth in 2020. “Elsewhere, the level of the country’s engagement in Africa Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) scheduled to kick-off July 1, 2020, will also impact the performance of trade sector.  “As a sustainable solution, it is imperative to fix the fundamental issues of high cost of domestic production, the prohibitive cost of cargo clearing at the Lagos ports, prohibitive import tariffs, high cost of logistics within the economy, and border policy capacity,” he said.  On the performance of the agricultural sector, the Director-General projected improved credit flow to agriculture on the back of proposed increase in deposit money banks’ loan to deposit ratio to 70 per cent.  However, from policy perspective, Yusuf expressed the view that prolonging closure of the land borders would further add impetus to agricultural output in 2020.  “We are of the view that failure by government to fix structural constraints with regards to fixing power challenges and rehabilitating deplorable road networks will perpetuate the poor productivity and performance of the sector. In addressing the Visa-on-arrival policy, the DG expressed belief that the policy would ensure continental economic integration between Nigeria and other African nations, particularly with regards to the Africa Continental Free Trade Area scheduled to start on July 1, 2020. He, however, expressed the hope that steps to curtail security risks would be taken before implementation. “We hope the necessary government agencies would take steps required so as not to expose the country to security risks and properly scrutinise those that would be coming into the country through the visa-on-arrival facility.” he said. He proposed the adoption of Visa Free Policy for nationals of selected advanced economies to facilitate the inflow of investment from such countries to Nigeria.  