Chi Limited, Nigeria’s undisputed market leader in Juices and Value Added Dairy beverages, has once again been recognized amongst the Top 50 Brands and honoured as the Most Customer-Centric Brand in Nigeria recently. The award given by Top50 Brands Nigeria is a recognition of the company’s commitment to excellence driven by consumer focus and superior product innovation. L-R: Joe Okonmah, Principal Partner, Jasek Communications Limited; Godspower Utawure, Marketing Services Manager, Chi Limited and Bunmi Oke, Chief Executive Officer, Ladybird Limited during the Presentation of the Most Customer-Centric Brand in Nigeria to Chi Limited at the 2019 TOP50 Brand Awards in Lagos The company has achieved this feat by identifying consumer needs and meeting them, adopting an innovative approach to consumer trends, delivering on its value proposition, and effectively communicating same to the consumer.  Using specific criteria including brand popularity, category leadership, innovation, national spread, corporate social responsibility and online engagement to measure brands, the Top50 Brand Award evaluates and celebrates top corporate brands that have consistently maintained a leadership position in their respective categories, lived up to their promises, and have become a part of popular culture.  Chief Executive Officer, Top50 Brands Nigeria, Taiwo Oluboyede, said that “the emergence of Chi Limited as the Most Customer-Centric Brand of the Year was the result of our brand research endeavour using the Brand Strength Measurement Index. A model that tests a brand’s ability to perform its promise from the consumer’s point of view.”  “The overwhelming positive feedback from customers on the array of fruit juices and dairy products from Chi Limited is commendable. It means that the organization continues to internalize the consumers’ perspectives first, to deliver innovative solutions, and drive engagement on an ongoing basis”, Oluboyede said.  Chi Limited Managing Director, Mr. Deepanjan Roy, expressed pleasure at the award and reiterated that the organization has constantly innovated over the years by anticipating trends and focusing on consumer expectations to build formidable brands that consumers can be proud of.  “We would continue to sustain the confidence consumers have invested in our brands by listening and understanding their needs in order to ensure product innovations for consumer satisfaction,” he said.  About CHI Limited Incorporated in 1980, CHI Limited is a market leader in the food & beverage sector in Nigeria. Each of its product offerings within the juice & dairy beverages and snacks categories in which it operates are category benchmarks which are loved for their taste and high nutrition. With its ISO 22000 certified state of the art manufacturing facility, CHI deploys advanced processing and packaging technology in making all its products.  CHI has established footprints in urban and rural Nigeria through a large network of depot operations across the country. In addition, CHI prides itself as being one of the few Fast Moving Consumer Good (FMCG) companies who export quality food and beverage products to other African countries.  Its passion for excellence and commitment to sustainable development is exemplified in its continuous efforts to provide the best food and beverages to its consumers. Through its continuous investments in manufacturing and related infrastructure projects, CHI currently provides direct and indirect employment to over 112,500 people through its robust value chain.