“she highlighted, adding that the Agency has also rolled out plans to achieve 60 percent local production of some pharmaceutical products by 2020 in the country” The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) has disclosed that an alarming street value of N1, 702,692,250,000 tramadol has so far been destroyed by the agency in 2019 alone, even as the agency Director General, Prof Christianah Adeyeye indicated that  NAFDAC will begin to test for imported Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (APIs) before they are used, to formulate drugs in the country. “Over 250 containers suspected to contain tramadol or unregistered Substandard and Falsified, SFs, medicines are undergoing examination before they are released for destruction”, she highlighted, adding that the Agency has also rolled out plans to achieve 60 percent local production of some pharmaceutical products by 2020 in the country. “Tramadol destroys. When we got information about 21 containers of tramadol were coming to Nigeria, I was almost crying that what have we done to them to want to destroy our people? Tramadol alters the state of mind. It is killing our young people that is why we are not taking them lightly. It destroys families, it destroys workforce. Our Enforcement and investigation inspectorate department on top of this”, Adeyeye also remarked, recalling that the removal of NAFDAC at the ports in 2011 up to 2018 worsened the problem of substandard and falsified, illicit drugs and unwholesome foods in the country, explaining that since the return of NAFDAC at the port in May 2018, the agency has seized and destroyed SFs, unwholesome food products worth over N3 billion. “We are trying to put back the systems that were destroyed for seven years that we were out of the port. Unfortunately, we cannot put back lives that were destroyed and killed. We cannot put some pieces of life back. “To curb SF and counterfeit medicines, NAFDAC has deployed multifaceted strategies including enforcement of regulation and control of APIs imported into the country to ensure they meet the required standards for manufacturing.” She further disclosed that the agency has rolled out plans to encourage local manufacturers to achieve at least 60 percent of local production of drugs.  To this end, NAFDAC has also reduced the number of registered imported products to encourage local manufacturing and innovations. Speaking, at the event, the President of Association of Pharmaceutical Importers of Nigeria (APIN), Pharmacist Nnamdi Obi posited that whether one is a local manufacturer of medicines in Nigeria or an importer, it was important that all products made available to Nigerians conform to internationally acceptable standards. He however lamented that there was a deficiency of infrastructure for either the manufacturer or as an importer. He  applauded the NAFDAC DG for her achievements so far in ensuring that Nigerians have safe  medicines. On his part, the Publicity Secretary of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Group of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (PMG-MAN), Mr. Oluwatosin Jolayemi affirmed that achieving the 60 per cent local drug manufacturing in the country in the five years was possible because a lot of companies have improved and achieved capacity. “Capacity is being improved on a daily basis; a lot of factories are being expanded. A lot of machinery are being bought, but not all installed capacity was being used.” “Right now, we are running less than 40 per cent capacity in the country as we stand and if we all run even at 80 per cent capacity, regardless of people investing and expanding their capacity, 60 per cent is not so much to achieve”, he explained further.  The Captioned Photo: The Director General, National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Prof Christianah Adeyeye