Union Bank has embarked on its 2019UnionCares charity drive, spreading cheer to the less privileged, and putting smiles on the faces of thousands across the country. This is in line with the financial institution’s commitment to support the communities within which it operates.UnionCaresis an annual initiative jointly sponsored and carried out by Union Bank and its employees,to give back to the society. This year,7,500 care bags containing staple food itemswere distributed to people living in undeserved communities nationwide. The Bank also made financial donations to a total of 60Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs)in support of their activities.Some of the recipients include Zinnok Initiatives for Women and Children, Abia; Ishiba Development and Empowerment Centre, Abuja; Naza Agape Foundation, Plateau and Wesley Schools for the Hearing impaired, Lagos. The Bank’s Head of Corporate Communication and Marketing, Ogochukwu Ekezie-Ekaidem described the exercise as one of the ways in which the Bank supports charitable causes and contributes to the well-being of the needy, particularly during the festive season. According to her; “Union Bank has a strong legacy of supporting the communities we serve. We remain focused on leading the charge for social responsibility and impact, an outlook that underpinsour choice of Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives. OurUnionCares initiative gives us the opportunity to touch as many lives as possible during the festive season and it is rewarding to see the level of impact the initiative has created.” Since its inception in 2016, UnionCares has come to be regarded as a viable platform which supports the less privileged in the society. In 2018, Union Bank received the ‘Peoples’ Choice Award for the Most Outstanding Company in CSR/Sustainability’ at the Sustainability, Enterprise and Responsibility Awards (SERAS), and emerged 2nd Runner up in the Most Responsible Company award category at SERAS 2019,underscoring Union Bank’s role as a socially conscious organisation, actively supporting its host communities.  About Union Bank Plc. Established in 1917 and listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1971, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc. is a household name and one of Nigeria’s long-standing and most respected financial institutions. The Bank is a trusted and recognizable brand, with an extensive network of over 300 branches across Nigeria. In late 2012, a new Board of Directors and Executive Management team were appointed to Union Bank and in 2014 the Bank began executing a transformation programme to re-establish it as a highly respected provider of quality financial services. The Bank currently offers a variety of banking services to both individual and corporate clients including current, savings and deposit account services, funds transfer, foreign currency domiciliation, loans, overdrafts, equipment leasing and trade finance. The Bank also offers its customers convenient electronic banking channels and products including Online Banking, Mobile Banking, Debit Cards, ATMs and POS Systems. More information can be found at:  www.unionbankng.com Media Enquiries: Email yowonubi@unionbankng.com 