Union Bank, one of Nigeria’s foremost financial institutions, recently launched full-service ultra-modern branches in Ekwulobia and Amawbia, Anambra state. The branches were opened as part of the Bank’s continued efforts to provide its customers with simpler and smarter banking services. The locations of the new branches take into consideration banking convenience for residents and businesses inthese communities. L-R: Head, Distribution and Channels Union Bank, Lola Cardoso; Principal Secretary to the Anambra State Governor, Mr. Willie Nwokoye; Chief Executive Officer Union Bank, Emeka Emuwa and Osojeze Amawbia, HRH Arc. Emeka Maduka at the launch of Union Bank’s new branch in Amawbia, Anambra State, recently. Speaking at the launch, Emeka Emuwa, Chief Executive Officer of Union Banksaidthe branches would give the Bank’s customers increased access to areliable and efficient banking experienceand actively promote financial inclusion within the community.According to him: “We are delighted at the opportunity tobring our signature banking services to you right where you are. At Union Bank, we believe banking should be simple, smart and relevant to the needs of the customer. It is this customer-focused outlook that drives us to continuously improve on our products and services across all our touchpoints as we strive to deliver our signature simpler, smarter banking.”   Speaking at the event in Amawbia,Mr. Willie Nwokoye, the representative of the Executive Governor of Anambra State Chief Willie Obiano, praised Union Bank’s focus on ensuringexcellent service delivery. He said,  “Union Bank has honoured our people with this establishment. We thank the Management and staff for seeing the potential economic case in Amawbia, and we are confident our people will support the growth of the Bank.”   The new branches are equipped to cater to the banking needs of all categories of customers including individuals, small businesses and larger organisations, reiterating Union Bank’s commitment to providing its valued customers with excellent banking services that enable their success.  About Union Bank Plc: Established in 1917 and listed on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1971, Union Bank of Nigeria Plc. is a household name and one of Nigeria’s long-standing and most respected financial institutions. The Bank is a trusted and recognizable brand, with an extensive network of over 300 branches across Nigeria.  In late 2012, a new Board of Directors and Executive Management team were appointed to Union Bank and in 2014 the Bank began executing a transformation programme to re-establish it as a highly respected provider of quality financial services.  The Bank currently offers a variety of banking services to both individual and corporate clients including current, savings and deposit account services, funds transfer, foreign currency domiciliation, loans, overdrafts, equipment leasing and trade finance. The Bank also offers its customers convenient electronic banking channels and products including Online Banking, Mobile Banking, Debit Cards, ATMs and POS Systems. 