Dana Air has won an award as the Best Airline in Passenger Facilitation at the 10th edition of the Nigerian Aviation Awards held recently at Oriental Hotels, Lagos L-R Fortune Idu, Founder Nigeria Aviation Award, Dana Air’s Kingsley Ezenwa, and  Clifford Omozeghian, Company Secretary and Legal Adviser ( FAAN) at the Nigeria Aviation Award where the airline emerged as the Best Airline in Passenger Facilitation. The Airline’s Media and Communications Manager, Kingsley Ezenwa while speaking to newsmen after receiving the award on behalf of Dana Air said, we are excited about this. We got similar award last 2 years as best airline, last also and this year, we just got this. This only demonstrates our commitment to providing seamless travel for our customers  hinged on comfort and safety.”  ”If you visit our counters you won’t find any passenger because we have eliminated the queues and that’s what we call efficiency. We have invested massively on technology to provide seamless booking, and check-in for our guests and we are glad they are flying the smartest way. We wish to dedicate this award to our customers for their loyalty and support for the past 11 years.  On the airline’s preparedness for the yuletide traffic, Kingsley said, ”we are prepared for the yuletide! This high demand is expected and we are creating more flights to ensure that our guests are not stranded in anyway at the airports. You would recall we recently acquired 2 Boeing 737 aircraft and we are at the final stages of their documentation. Pretty soon, we would have flights in abundance for our guests.”  ‘We wish to encourage our guests to visit our website www.flydanaair.com for booking, chat with us on our WhatsApp  07051190363 for inquiries, and take advantage of our self-booking and check-in kiosk at the Murtala Mohammed Airport 2.” Having flown over 5.4m passengers in the last 11 years of its operations, Dana Air is one of Nigeria’s leading with a flight size of 9 aircraft and daily flights from Lagos to Abuja, Port Harcourt, Uyo and Owerri.  The airline is reputed for its innovative online product, world -class in-flight service and unrivaled on-time performance. 