The Nigerian Army on Monday redeployed 20 Major Generals and more than 10 Brigadier Generals in a major shakeup, which, it said, would reinvigorate the system for greater efficiency. The redeployment, approved by the Chief of the Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, took immediate effect, according to a statement by the Acting Director, Army Public Relations, Col. Sagir Musa. The army’s spokesman said, “Due to the recent promotion of some senior officers, it became imperative to deploy them in appropriate appointments. Consequently, the Army has released the postings and appointments of the affected officers. “The posting, which was approved by the Chief of Army Staff, is carried out to reinvigorate the system for greater efficiency. “The highlights of the posting include the appointment of Maj. Gen. E.O. Ogunkale to the Defence Headquarters as the Chief of Defence Standards and Evaluation; Maj. Gen. A.O. Uthman to the Defence Headquarters as Director, Defence Communications; Maj. Gen. O.O. Soleye to Headquarters, Command Army Record, Lokoja, Kogi State; Maj.-Gen. Y.I. Shalangwa to Defence Headquarters as Director, Legal Services; Maj. Gen. D.C. Onyemulu to the Armed Forces Simulation Centre; while Maj. Gen. H.I. Bature is redeployed to the Defence Headquarters and appointed Director, Liaison. “Similarly, Brig. Gen. J.C. Ogbonna is redeployed to the Headquarters, 82 Division, Enugu State and appointed the division’s training officer; Brig.Gen. B.H. Mohammed to the Nigerian Military School, Zaria, as Commandant; Brig.-Gen. G.O. Omorogbe to the Headquarters, Infantry Corps Centre, Jaji, as Chief of Staff; and Brig. Gen. A.J. Fagge to the Ministry of Defence as Principal General Staff Officer to the Minister of Defence.” Meanwhile, the Nigerian Air Force said on Monday it had bombed Boko Haram enclave in Kollaram in northern Borno State The NAF Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, said in statement, “In continuation of Operation Rattle Snake, the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole has neutralised some terrorists as they assembled for a meeting at their hideout in Kollaram on the fringes of Lake Chad in the northern part of Borno State. “The NAF jets dispatched by the ATF to attack the location scored accurate hits on the target building completely obliterating it and killing its terrorist occupants.”