 As businesses and individuals count the cost of last week’s strike by electricity workers, records obtained yesterday from the office of the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo has shown that the daily electricity supply also dipped to an average of 2,828 megawatts (MW) following the short-lived strike by the National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE). The records showed that on December 12, the union’s strike forced Nigeria to distribute a paltry 753MW among the 11 electricity distribution companies (Discos). The one-day strike, which took place on Wednesday, led to system collapse, which almost plunged the whole country into darkness after the workers of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN), joined their colleagues in the distribution and generation companies. Though the issues were resolved at the early hours of Thursday, electricity supply remained epileptic throughout the weekend. For instance, as at 6.a.m on Thursday, peak generation was 4,214.6MW, but it later slumped to an all-time low of 12MW, resulting in system collapse. By 6.a.m on Friday, 3,858.1MW was sent to the national grid. Before the workers embarked on the strike on Wednesday, power supply as at 6a.m on Tuesday was 4,047megawatts. On Monday, peak generation was 4,292.7MW while the lowest generation was 3,507MW. However, despite the resumption of work by the workers, generation, supply has remained poor. Available records from the Office of the Vice President indicated that the country’s electricity sector has continued to perform poorly with average daily supply between January 1 and December 13, 2019 falling to 3,772MW as against 3,793MW recorded as daily average supply between January 1 and December 13, 2018. The electricity workers embarked on the strike to chiefly get the government to address alleged welfare complaints arising from the sale of power assets of defunct Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) in a 2013 power sector privatisation programme. NUEE’s General Secretary, Mr. Joe Ajaero, told the media that the strike was occasioned by the non-payment of the entitlement of over 2,000 workers of the defunct PHCN who were laid off during the privatisation. Ajaero also said workers were short paid for over 16 months while the condition of service for those still within the power sector in the successor companies of PHCN was poor.