The Chief Executive Officer of Modion Communications, Odion Aleobua, has emerged the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) ‘Rising Practitioner of the Year’ 2019 at the recently held NIPR Lagos Chapter’s Lagos PR Industry Gala & Awards (LaPRIGA) held at Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos, on Thursday, December 19, 2019.  The awards gala which is in its fourth edition is a gathering of the crème of the Public Relations and the Communications industry, government, corporates, including media personalities in Nigeria.  According to the Awards Selection Panel, Odion Aleobua was single out for the award for his unmatched contributions to the Media and PR industry in the areas of leadership, creativity, staff empowerment, retention and emolument as well as social impact via CSR projects in 2019.  Tagged the Oscars of the Nigerian PR industry, the award aims at recognising excellence, celebrate practitioners, corporates, and stakeholders via awards dinner, and to boost professionalism and more investment in the practice.  Commenting on the award, Odion expressed his gratitude to the leadership of the Institute and the organisers for finding him worthy of the deserved award. “I am pleased and humbled to have been recognised by the leading institution for PR Practice in Nigeria. This year has been momentous for our agency as we were able to put together creative solutions that got the clients buzzing. From the #SeeFinish activation that gripped the whole of Lagos, to the crises management for some of Nigeria’s leading brands and the stellar conference support for our Singaporean client, the team at Modion Communications demonstrated that we are here for the big and spectacular outcomes, in just four years of our establishment. So this award comes as the icing on all the efforts.  He added that; “We would continue to seek ways to promote the practice, birth new ideas and make a meaningful impact to the society through insight-driven innovations that will propagate public relations and communications in another level.”  In his remarks, the Chairman, Nigerian Institute of Public Relations, Lagos chapter, Mr Olusegun McMedal said Odion Aleobua had distinguished himself a Practitioner with creative ingenuity, contributions to the growth of the practice as well making impressive social impacts since he ventured into agency practice.  ABOUT ODION ALEOBUA Odion Aleobua is an award-winning communications expert with over 15 years of experience, spanning the oil and gas, financial services, public sector, and the media.  He started his career at TELL Magazine, where he proceeded to manage media and public relations for Industrial and General Insurance PLC (IGI).  Odion joined Oando PLC in 2007, where he spearheaded PR and media management for the group. He left to head the Brands & Corporate Communications unit at Forte Oil PLC and was responsible for executing the rebranding of the company from African Petroleum PLC.  Odion currently manages a full spectrum PR Agency, Modion Communications, which he founded in 2015. He has led the agency to provides consultancy for leading local and international brands like Old Mutual, Oando, Leadway Assurance, Lumos Nigeria, LSETF, Rainoil, Nahco Free Trade, Gokada, Axxela, to mention but this few.  The Captioned Photo: The Chief Executive Officer of Modion Communications Ltd, Odion Aleobua 