Chevron Nigeria Limited (CNL), operator of the NNPC/CNL Joint Venture, has won two awards at the   industry dinner and awards night, organised by the Nigerian International Petroleum Summit (NIPS) in Abuja. The awards were in recognition of the company’s outstanding performance. The awards won by CNL are: “for contributions to the hydrocarbons industry, and the Foreign Investment Network’ (FIN)“. CNL Chairman and Managing Director, Jeff Ewing, received the two awards. The first award was presented by the Nigeria’s Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu, while the second was presented by FIN Chief Executive Officer, Michael Dragoyevich. The event was attended by dignitaries such as Kebbi State Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu; Petroleum Ministers from other countries, including Equatorial Guinea, Sudan, Cote D’Ivoire, Chad, Niger Republic, Togo and Norway. There were others such as NNPC representatives, industry regulators, participants from other African countries, and other industry players. Advert CNL General Manager, Policy, Government and Public Affairs (PGPA) Esimaje Brikinn, who spoke at the event, expressed joy over the awards. He explained that the NNPC/CNL Joint Venture is a major oil and gas producer and has provided substantial revenue to NNPC, the Federal Government and state governments for over 50 years. He also said the company is the leading domestic gas supplier and has made great strides in putting out gas flares and increasing supply to the domestic market through its integrated gas development projects.  “Chevron is the largest domestic gas supplier in Nigeria,” he said. On corporate responsibility, Mr. Brikinn said CNL has demonstrated its commitment to the ideals of meeting the needs of the community in health, education, economic development areas. “CNL has provided thousands of scholarship awards worth billions of naira to Nigerian students. CNL has also established the scholarship for the Blind to cater for the visually-impaired students,” he noted