All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate in the 2019 governorship election in Abia State, Dr. Uche Ogah, has said he would reposition the state with massive infrastructural development and making the state a prime investment hub in the country. He made the commitment while speaking at the official unveiling of his manifesto “Abia Rejoice” This is my story, My declaration” at the Civic Center in Lagos. According to him, the vision is to develop the city into a model, one with massive industrial and economic boom, with excellent array of industrial, agricultural, tourist and commercial facilities with global economic influence comparable to any developed country in the world. He said ‘’ we have a master plan to ensure the dreams of our great founding fathers like Dr. Michael I. Okpara ( Premier of the defunct Eastern Region)are brought to bear, where Abia will be a happy and a model state in the federation of Nigeria’’ ‘’In My Declaration’ my ideas and vision for the state are great, which includes but not limited to massive agricultural development, beautification and greening, infrastructural and industrial revolution, Aba and new Abia city development, rural development, job and wealth creation, internal and foreign direct investment, crime control and general security, educational revolution and eradication of gender disparity. He said his leadership would deliver quality pro-people projects and improve the living standard of the people of the state, adding that his commitment to development and democracy is immutable. ‘For me it’s not about being a Governor but about taking governance back to the people, where our youths will be empowered and be the best in Africa, where families will live fulfilled life, and where over one million business will returned back to Enyimba city. We are committed to taking Abia to its first position, we need to salvage the state from the hands of principalities that has held down the development of the state.’’ Ogah said. Ogah stressed that the state under his leadership will attain greater mileage in terms of massive agricultural revolution, re-invent and modernize the programmes of Dr. M.I. Okpara, ‘’ we plan to increase rice production from the wetlands of Abia, we will transform existing rice production centers at Ulonna North and south in Ohuhu and watershed of Bende, Abam and Ohafia. “For me, with God all things are possible, when God brings us to leadership, it will be a privilege to serve my people and I will give it my best shot. I am ready to lay down my life for the state. My commitment to the development of Abia State is total. Abia people will not be trapped for ever. Their liberation is at hand ‘’ he stated It would be recalled that unprecedented jubilations greeted the nomination of Uche Sampson Ogah as the Abia State governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress, APC across the length and breadth of the state and this bears quantum testimony that the people are eagerly waiting for him to come on board and steer Abia to the path of greatness. The people trust Ogah to liberate them from the shackles of bad governance, extreme deprivation and poverty which former governments and their cohorts have inflicted on Abians.