The organizing committee of the Lagos Fintech Week has selected the jury to select winners of all entries for the Nigerian Fintech Awards. Damilola Salawu, managing associate with the oil and gas practice group of Olaniwun Ajayi has been selected as the chairman of the jury while Rarzack Olaegbe will act as the Secretary. The chairman of the Lagos Fintech Week, Dr. Yele Okeremi has announced that the award jury has the mandate to select winners from the entries to different categories of the awards that would be giving out to individuals and organization that distinguish themselves in the Nigerian fintech industry. The entry deadline is April 5. The winners will be unveiled at the Lagos Fintech Week conference on April 26 at Oriental Hotel, Lekki, Lagos. Lagos Fintech Week (L F W) is an invigorating week of distinct Fintech events that deliver exciting discussions, stimulating demos and insightful debates. DAMILOLA SALAWU | CHAIRMAN Dami is a managing associate with the oil and gas practice group of Olaniwun Ajayi. He heads the firm’s group that focuses on technology, innovation and fintech.He won the Managing Partner’s prize for the Best Performing Counsel in the firm for consecutive years. He advises on a wide range of debt and project finance transactions across sectors such as the financing and development of oil and gas projects including pipelines,refineries, processing plants, petroleum assets and jetties. As head of the technology,innovation and fintech group,he advises Nigerian based fintech companies and tech-enabled businesses on all aspects of their operations. He is familiar with assisting these businesses to procure regulatory approvals and permits in a challenging regulatory landscape. In this role, he also advises incubators and accelerators on varying matters related to their business. RARZACK OLAEGBE | SECRETARY He has over two decades of cognate experience in the art and science of journalism, content development, public relations, broadcasting, publishing and marketing communications strategy. He is the co-founder and chief operating officer of eMaginations publisher of financialtechnology magazine and www.financialtechnology. A team player, he has managed several clients’ campaigns successfully. He maintains a newspaper column with a strong technology bent and has worked in several newspapers, magazine and PR firms. Tweet at him @RarzackO. CHIDINMA LAWANSON| MEMBER Chidinma Lawanson is a financial services consultant with the International Finance Corporation (IFC), an arm of the World Bank, in their financial institutions group – advisory services, covering subSaharan Africa, in the areas of agrifinance, Micro, Small & Medium Enterprise (MSME) and women’s businesses. She has consulted on a USAID project on digital payments for offgrid solar energy and on a MasterCard Foundation’s MSME scoping project. She was the CEO of Enhancing Financial Innovation & Access (EFInA) in 2016 and 2017. She has 21 years’ experience at Diamond Bank Plc, where she held significant roles in operations and business development. She rose to the level of group head. She also headed the MSME unit, developing key partnerships with multilateral international agencies (IFC, USAID and Women’s World Banking) in the roll-out of disruptive retail banking products. SHINA BADARU| MEMBER Shina Badaru is the founder/Group CEO of Technology Times, Nigeria’s leading provider of news, information and business services on the ICT industry on several print, online and mobile platforms. Prior to establishing Technology Times, he has over 20 years career experiences spanning media, consultancy, technology, technology market intelligence, among others industries. He graduated from Nigeria’s prestigious journalism school,the Department of Mass Communications,University of Lagos in 1993 and sits on the board of some Nigerian companies. ADEWALE YUSUF | MEMBER Adewale Yusuf is a visual storyteller with a strong interest in technology and humanity ecosystem.He has followed closely the happenings in the African tech sector for more than seven years. He is the founder and CEO of an African leading technology media platform Techpoint.ng. Techpoint.africa plays an instrumental role in the African technology ecosystem and for years has been chronicling the impact of technology on the Nigeria narrative. He is also the chief host of Techpoint Inspired (Nigerian largest tech conference),Techpoint Build (Nigerian largest Startup Conference & Exhibition) BAYO ADEWOLU | MEMBER Bayo has over 18 years’ professional experience in financial services, business advisory and consulting services. He has led the development and implementation of technology strategy, finance function transformation, and digital transformation engagements. With a focus on financial services, he has successfully helped clients to deliver complex transformational technology initiatives across the enterprise. Bayo has worked with the Board of a leading Credit Bureau in Nigeria to benchmark its services to competition and conduct some due diligence on identified potential technical partners. He leads PwC Nigeria’s engagement around the rapidly evolving emerging technology ecosystem, bringing global trends to bear on local peculiarities. He has co-facilitated sessions on technology innovation and adoption for the boards of some of the leading financial institutions in the sub-region. SUNDAY AFOLAYAN| MEMBER Sunday Folayan is the President of the Nigeria Internet Registration Association (NiRA).He is an active and influential participant in the Nigerian and African ICT industry. He co-founded and is the CEO of General Data Engineering Services (SKAANET), which provides functional and affordable networks in Nigeria. Through this company, he was among the first innovators to bring internet connectivity to Nigeria.