The Association of Bureaux de Change Operators of Nigeria has introduced its Live Run operation portal to enhance its compliance with set regulations and promote market integrity. The President, ABCON, Alhaji Aminu Gwadabe, said the project automated all Bureaux de Change operations with integration to Nigeria Inter-bank Settlement System, Nigeria Financial Intelligence Unit and Central Bank of Nigeria, to improve the level of compliance of the operators with set regulations. He spoke during the ABCON Live Run automation project launch with the theme, ‘Digitising Bureaux de Change operations for efficiency, transparency and regulatory compliance’, in Lagos. Gwadabe said, “The project came in three layers and stages. First layer is an online registration of our members in order to build a membership database. This has a success rate of about 80 per cent to 90 per cent as over 4,100 BDCs are registered, nationwide. “The second layer borders on automation of BDCs’ operational processes, book keeping, issuance of receipt, preparation of accounts, balance sheets, ledgers and sales/purchase registers. The most important of this layer is the online real time rendition of returns to regulatory agencies. Another important feature of this layer is our platform’s integration of the NIBSS portal for verifications and validation of clients’ Bank Verification Numbers , which is the most vital requirement for forex sale. “The final layer is the one that excites me a lot and has to do with a trading platform for BDCs in Nigeria. Our technical experts in India, Poland are in advance stage of completion for onward submission to the CBN.” According to him, ABCON had fully upgraded its Information Communication and Technology platforms, to achieve full digitisation of BDCs operations in line with its goal of sustaining transparent operation and prompt rendition of weekly returns to regulatory agencies. He said, “Of special note is also the integration of our platform to the Nigeria Immigration Service platform for the verification of passports. Already, we are in advance engagement with the Irish technology experts for the achievement of this idea.”