Trophy Lager, a leading quality beer brand and one of the national treasures from the stable of International Breweries Plc, a proud part of the AB InBev family, has concluded its National Consumer Promo, tagged Honourable Millionaires promo. The promo was designed to celebrate Trophy Lager’s forty years of facilitating goodwill and celebration.  The 10-week promotion, which produced 40 millionaires commenced on October 1 and lasted till December 20, 2018, with millions of Naira worth of prizes awarded to consumers during the course of the ‘Honourable Millionaires promo.  Consumers also won other consolation prizes like instant airtime, cash prizes, free drinks and other items.  Speaking on the promo, Mrs. Tolu Adedeji, Marketing Manager, International Breweries Plc, said, “The Honourable Millionaires promo was all about providing a memorable experience for our esteemed and loyal fans and also reinforcing the brand’s values of honour, integrity and quality service. We are happy that through this promo we have been able to bring people together for a better world and it afforded us the opportunity to celebrate and reward our highly esteemed honourable men and women, who have stood with the Trophy brand for 40 years, for their support and loyalty, in a unique and fun way”.  Many cash winners had their prizes presented to them in Trophy organized musical fiestas in various cities across the South West by the brand representatives in the presence of various audiences, as the brand showcased the transparency of the process.  One of the winners, Mrs. Ugonna Onyenekwu, a medical doctor, said her reward was a surprise, adding, “I feel very good. This was unexpected. It’s like a free gift from nowhere.” Another winner, a 25-year old Ogundairo Olakunle, said he was happy going home with the kitchen appliances. The university undergraduate said he would continue to use Western Union with the hope of winning bigger prizes in the future.  Remarkably, Trophy Lager popularly referred to as the pride of the south-west and widely accepted as the Honourable beer that’s deeply rooted in the region’s socio-cultural values, and loved by consumers because of its distinctive taste and quality, has remained a market leader in its category.  About International Breweries Plc.  International Breweries Plc “IB Plc”, is a proud part of the world’s largest brewer, Anheuser-Busch InBev, (AB InBev) with over 400 beer brands. IB Plc was established in 1971 and was listed on The Nigerian Stock Exchange in 1995. AB InBev consolidated its business stakes in Pabod Breweries Limited, Intafact Beverages Limited into its majority ownership of IB Plc in a merger that was concluded in December 2017. The combined experience of our diverse people team from the three companies is about 100 years. Our major National brands are Trophy Lager, Hero Lager, Betamalt, Grandmalt, Castle Lite and the premium brand, Budweiser. We are committed to building great brands that stand the test of time and to brewing the best beers using the finest natural ingredients while impacting positively on the communities we operate in for sustainable growth. Our Dream is to bring people together for a better world. This is the energy that drives our people.