President of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), Engr. Adekunle Mokuolu (right), explaining a point to the Group Managing Director of NNPC, Dr. Maikanti Baru, during the visit… Thursday The Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE) has commended the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) for its exemplary role in the advocacy of science and engineering-based education for the girl child through support for the activities of the Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria (APWEN).  Engr. Adekunle Mokuolu, President Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), stated this Thursday in Abuja while receiving NNPC’s Management led by the corporation’s Group Managing Director, Engr. Maikanti Baru, to the Headquarters of the society.  A release by NNPC Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs Division, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, said the NSE President disclosed that by identifying with APWEN in its quest to engender a sound foundation for female engineering professionals in the country, the corporation was taking a step that would invariably illuminate the nation’s engineering and technological landscape a few years from now.  Engr. Mokuolu particularly commended the NNPC GMD whom he described as a worthy first class ambassador of the engineering profession, saying Baru was not just a first class scholar but also a worthy administrator.  Responding, the NNPC GMD said the visit was part of the corporation’s strategic stakeholder engagement with professional bodies with which the corporation shares common goals of championing Nigeria’s march towards strengthening professionalism, capacity development, local content and industrialization.  He noted that the NSE has over the years, continued to play a pivotal role in transforming engineering profession in Nigeria. The NNPC GMD also said the corporation would continue to identify with NSE’s resolve to groom professional engineers as well as promote and entrench engineering excellence in the country.  He explained that this role has become crucial due to the increasing need for sustainable and secured energy mix that would support the nation’s quest for economic prosperity and growth.  “It gladdens my heart to see that NSE has remained at the forefront of providing the right direction and the necessary professional support towards catalyzing sustainable energy growth in Nigeria since 1958”, he said.  Dr. Baru tasked the NSE to find better ways of collaboration with engineering professionals within the Oil and Gas Industry and the academia with a view to providing lasting solutions to some of the challenges bedeviling the industry today. 