 President/Chief Executive of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote received a resounding ovation at the Oil & amp; Gas industry award presentation ceremony organized by the Ministry of Petroleum Resources as part of the programmes to mark the official opening ceremony of the Nigerian International Petroleum Summit (NIPS) held in Abuja.  Aliko Dangote received the Honorary Patron’s Award from Brevity Anderson for his contribution to the Global Hydrocarbon Industry and his investment in the Nigeria’s downstream sector.  Group Executive Director, Government and Strategic Relations, Dangote Industries Limited, Engr Ahmed Mansur, was on hand to receive the awards from the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu on behalf of Aliko Dangote, at a dinner at Transcorp Hilton Hotel Abuja, and witnessed by many dignitaries including representatives of the NNPC/industry regulators, participants from other African countries and other industry players.  Speaking at the award/dinner night, Kachikwu said that the elaborate event was aimed at rewarding, recognising institutions, organizations and personalities who have contributed immensely to the growth and development of the industry and the entire economy of the nation.  Specifically, he commended Aliko Dangote for investing in the building of the largest single train refinery in the country, while assuring of total support in promoting the success of the project. “This refinery is indeed a massive and gigantic project which needs to be supported by government and investors”, he added.  Receiving the award, Engr. Mansur thanked the organisers of the awards’ for recognising Aliko Dangote and for taking note of his exemplary investment in many sectors of the Nigeria economy.  Engr. Mansur assured all stakeholders that Dangote Industries will not relent in offering exceptional service in the industry, stressing that the organization would continue to exhibit and maintains global best practices at all times. He said the 650,000 barrel capacity petrochemical refinery per day project being executed by Dangote is capable of transforming and diversifying the Nigerian economy from a major importer of petroleum products to an exporter of petroleum products.  He described the refinery as one of the most strategic socio-economic projects in Nigeria, featuring the largest single train petroleum refinery in the globe with 650,000 bpd capacity.  According to him, Dangote Refinery is investing in most advanced units to produce Euro V fuel to help Nigeria meet the European Standard of gasoline, adding that the construction of the Refinery will provide thousands of direct and indirect jobs and add value to the Nigeria’s economic development. 