 —- A Guide To Investing in Nigeria by Toyin F. Sanni. In pursuit of its leadership role and its mission to catalyze the emergence of Nigeria and other African markets as leading investment destinations, the Emerging Africa Capital Group has enlisted the support of the Nigerian Stock Exchange to host the launch of an authoritative work on investing in Nigeria written by its Group Chief Executive Officer, Toyin F. Sanni titled “Riding the Eagle – A Guide To Investing In Nigeria”.  The event will hold by 10.30 am on Monday, February 4, 2019, on the 20th floor of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, 4 Customs Street, Lagos. Riding the Eagle aims to provide an insider perspective on the opportunities and risks of investing in Nigeria. The book is a guide for both local and international investors seeking to exploit the unique opportunities in the Nigerian economy, learn from the success stories of leading investors in Nigeria, as well as how to navigate the potential pitfalls and risks.  The book launch is expected to host Chief Mrs. Folorunso Alakija, Executive Vice Chairman, Famfa Oil, as Chairperson of the event and several other distinguished speakers, including but not limited to the CEO, The Nigerian Stock Exchange, Mr. Oscar Onyema, the Director General, Securities and Exchange Commission, Ms. Mary Uduk, the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr. Jumoke Oduwole and the Group Chairman, Emerging Africa Capital Limited, Chief Mrs. Onikepo Akande, CON.  Emerging Africa will also present its Economic Report at the event. The Report provides a review of 2018 and outlook for 2019. It x-rays the Nigerian Investment environment and sheds light on expectations for critical sectors of the economy, with particular emphasis on the Renewable Energy Sector as an area of special focus.  “We are delighted at the support we have received from the Securities and Exchange Commission “SEC” and the Nigerian Stock Exchange, “NSE” on this project, demonstrating the commitment of these two institutions to the imperative of providing objective information, incisive analysis and clear guidelines to domestic and international investors interested in the Nigerian market” stated Toyin F. Sanni, Group Chief Executive Officer.  To register to attend the event, click here  https://emergingafricagroup.com/formal-book-launch-riding-the-eagleattendance-registration-form/ Orders for the book can also be made via email to ridingtheeagle@emergingafricagroup.com. RSVP and requests for further information may be sent to eac@emergingafricagroup.com  ABOUT THE EAC GROUP Emerging Africa Capital Group (“EAC Group”) is an African financial services group fully licensed by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as Issuing House/Underwriters and Trustees. We are a provider of financial services aimed to facilitate financing and investment processes for African corporations and individuals and for investors interested in Africa’s attractive investment opportunities. The EAC Group comprises of Emerging Africa Capital Limited and its subsidiaries – EAC Advisory Limited which provides integrated financial solutions covering Advisory and Capital Raising, and EAC Trustees Limited which provides Trusts and private wealth management solutions.