The Managing Director of Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Captain Fola Akinkuotu, has stated that NAMA would no longer accept cash for all its transaction. He called on operators of non-scheduled flights to pay all their financial transactions into the NAMA Treasury Single Account (TSA) account in the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). According to him, the era of paying cash to Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) for delivery to the CBN had become history. Akinkuotu stated at a meeting with agents and representatives of operators of non-scheduled flights, noting that there is no going back on the adoption of the TSA for its transactions. The NAMA boss said ‘’TSA is a federal Government’s policy that demanded compliance from all stake holders.’’ He appealed to the operators to embrace the new system as the entire world is going cashless, assuring them that the new system would yield them positive results. ‘‘This is an innovation that would only improve and sanitise the nation’s financial system but also ensure accountability and transparency in the long run. ‘’If we desire an aviation industry that is globally competitive, we have to imbibe global best practices,’’ Akinkuotu said, nothing that the risks associated with the old system of carrying cash around have made it not fashionable. Speaking on behalf of the non-scheduled operators, the Managing Director of Sunrise International Air Support Limited, Mr. Sunny Ebisue, Expressed gratitude to NAMA for organising such a forum, saying that it had shed more light on some of the grey areas that attended the row payment system. He however called on the agency to sustain such interaction with operators to keep them abreast with new development. It will be recalled in a circular, dated November 7, 2018, the office of the Accountant-General of the Federation dated November 7, 2018 warned Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) and other government entities to desist from maintaining accounts with banks without the President’s approval, saying that all affected Federal Government-owned and controlled MDAs and other entities must close DMB accounts, in local or foreign currency and transfer them to the TSA sub-account at the CBN. As part of the resolution at by both NAMA and the operators is that an operator or its representative is to open a domiciliary account for its financial transactions with NAMA using a smart phone. A representative can also open a domiciliary account, transfer an amount in foreign currency in advance into NAMA account at the CBN to enable it debit the operator, any time it does business with the agency. 