L-R: Mr. Kayode Akinkugbe, Managing Director/CEO, FBNQuest Merchant Bank Limited, Mr. Bola Onadele. Koko, Managing Director/CEO, FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange, Mr. Kola Ashiru-Balogun, Managing Director, Mixta Real Estate (Nigeria) PLC, during the signing of the Listing & Quotation Registers at the Listing & Quotation Ceremony for the Mixta Real Estate (Nigeria) PLC Bonds & CPs at Exchange Place, Lagos. The management of Financial Market Dealers Quotations *FMDQ* supports Housing & Infrastructure development in the nation is taking progressive steps in the right direction, as another corporate, Mixta Real Estate (Nigeria) PLC (Mixta PLC), taps the debt capital markets (DCM) for funding targeted at this development. The listing of the Mixta Real Estate PLC ₦2.96bn Tranche A and ₦2.32bn Tranche B Series 2 Bonds (the “Mixta Bonds”) under a ₦30.00bn Debt Issuance Programme and the quotation of the Mixta Real Estate PLC ₦9.84bn Series 1 and ₦2.08bn Series 2 Commercial Papers (the “Mixta CPs”) under a ₦15.00bn Commercial Paper Issuance Programme, on FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange (FMDQ) is another significant contribution inspiring confidence in the Nigerian markets as housing and infrastructure development progressively takes form. To commemorate the listing and quotation of the Mixta bonds and CPs, a prestigious Ceremony was held
at FMDQ’s business complex, Exchange Place, on Thursday, February 21, 2019, where FMDQ played host
to the issuer, Mixta PLC, represented by the Managing Director, Mr. Kola Ashiru-Balogun, and other
representatives of Mixta PLC. Also present at the Ceremony were the sponsor to the bonds and CPs on
FMDQ and the Registration Member (Listings & Quotations), FBNQuest Merchant Bank Limited, and
representatives from the Joint Issuing Houses, CardinalStone Partners Limited, Coronation Merchant Bank Limited, FSDH Merchant Bank Limited, Stanbic IBTC Capital Limited and Vetiva Capital Management
Limited, as well as the solicitors to the listing, Banwo & Ighodalo, Udo Udoma & Belo Osagie, amongst
others. Ms. Tumi Sekoni, Associate Executive Director, Capital Markets, FMDQ, whilst welcoming the guests
gathered to commemorate this commendable feat, congratulated the issuer for the successful issuances.
She highlighted that the use of the proceeds of the bonds & CPs would help address the nation’s housing
and infrastructure gap in a sustainable manner to deliver prosperity for Nigerians and further deepen the
domestic DCM, invariably contributing to Nigeria’s development. She further reiterated FMDQ’s
commitment to continue to deliver strategic initiatives towards the development of a highly liquid, deep
and well-developed DCM in Nigeria. Advert In delivering his special address, Mr. Kola Ashiru-Balogun, commented “these issuances play an important role in implementing our business strategy to develop affordable housing units; our modest contribution to bridging Nigeria’s significant housing deficit. The confidence the Nigerian capital market has in us as demonstrated in these issuances is encouraging; we are more than ever committed in our quest to make strategic partnerships and provide innovative solutions whilst utilising effective long-term financing mechanisms.” Speaking on behalf of the sponsor to the bonds and CPs, Mr. Kayode Akinkugbe, stated, “we are pleased
to have advised Mixta PLC on the issuances of its bonds and CPs. As a full-service investment bank, we
have supported Mixta PLC in obtaining bridge finance, advised on the bond and CP issuances and security structure, and we leveraged our extensive distribution capability to successfully sell the bonds and CPs. This transaction enables Mixta PLC to finance affordable housing projects and extends the tenor of its
debt portfolio. Listing and quoting on the bonds and CPs on FMDQ will provide investors with a
transparent and efficient platform for price determination, liquidity and execution of trades.” Ms. Kaodi Ugoji, Associate Executive Director, Corporate Development, FMDQ, in her closing remarks,
applauded the issuer for achieving this landmark. She also commended the sponsor to the issue and
Registration Member (Listings & Quotations) of FMDQ for their concerted efforts towards ensuring the
success of the issuances. She further reiterated that through consistent collaboration with its
stakeholders, FMDQ will not relent on in its efforts to further deepen and effectively position the Nigerian
DCM for growth, in support of the realisation of a globally competitive and vibrant economy.