Minister of Communications, Dr. Adebayo Shittu with the stakeholdersThe Honourable Minister of Communications, Dr. Adebayo Shittu has urged ICT stakeholders to support the Nigerian National Broadband Council with credible suggestions towards the development of the new Nigerian National Broadband Plan (NNBP) for  2019 – 2023. He made this known during a meeting organized by Association of Telecommunication Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) on A Post-Nigeria National Broadband Plan 2013-2018 with a theme “Success, Prospects and Challenges” held at the Treasury Suites & Conference, Abuja. The Minister stated that Nigeria has been improving its use of ICT enabled services to drive socio-economic activities and created an enormous need for sustainable broadband capacity and improved quality of services. He said that the Council has been reviewing the progress made so far, and identified areas of program adjustment to permit the realization of new and emerging opportunities. Dr. Shittu added that such areas of review were development of an Integrated National Broadband Backbone; development of National Policy on Open Access; constitution of Inter-Ministerial Committee on ICT Convergence and related issues; engagement of Strategic Partners on specific issues (such as RoW, Funding, Tax waivers etc); and Participation of all Stakeholders in the review process through suggestions to improve on the new strategy document. The Minister reiterated that Nigerian National Broadband Council was established to provide periodic evaluation of progress, facilitate coordination and collaboration and highlight areas of program adjustment to permit the realization of new and emerging opportunities. He stressed that the Ministry has developed some critical policy documents to guide interested investors and industry players and to engender trust. Some of the policy documents include; the e-Government Masterplan; the Local Content Guideline, and ICT Roadmap. Earlier, the Executive Vice Chairman/CEO, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta,  stated that progress has been made in enhancing broadband infrastructure by the issuance of licensed to 6 (six) infrastructure companies (InfraCos) to drive the deployment of infrastructure across the nations’ geographical zones.L-R: Chairman, Open Media, Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, Managing Director, Galaxy Backbone, Mr. Yusuf Kazure, Executive Vice Chairman/ CEO, Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC), Pro. Umar Garba Danbatta, Managing Director, (NIGCOMSAT), Ms. Abimbola Alale, Representative of DG NITDA, Dr. Agu  Coll and President ATCON, Mr. Olusola Teniola  at a meeting organized by Association of Telecommunication Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) on A Post-Nigeria National Broadband Plan 2013-2018 with a theme “Success, Prospects and Challenges” held at the Treasury Suites & Conference, Abuja “NCC is working with  NBC as mandated by the National Frequency Management Council (NFMC) to develop guidelines for the introduction of TV White Space (TVWS) deployment in the country to further deepen Broadband penetration in Nigeria,” He said. In his overview of the Broadband Plan 2013-2018, the Managing Director/CEO, Steven Allen Associates, Mr. Osondu Nwokoro commended the Ministry and its agencies for achieving the target and promoting instant shared infrastructure among existing operators adding that there is the need to look at the loopholes in the plan in order to forge ahead for better result for future plan.  . 