Zenith Bank is a Nigerian multinational financial services provider. It is licensed as a commercial bank, by the Central Bank of Nigeria, the central bank and national banking regulator. The Bank is a large financial service provider in Nigeria and Anglophone West Africa on Tuesday presented its audited financials for the year ended December 31, 2018 to the regulatory authority showed a drop in earnings income, profit after tax soared to N193.147bn, up from the previous year’s N173.472bn. This represented Earnings Per Share of N6.15, as against the previous N5.53, out of which the directors have proposed a dividend per share of N2.50, same as previous full-year, bringing total payout for the 2018 financial year to N2.80 per share, considering the 30 kobo interim dividend earlier paid. A Bank with Corporate Internet Banking (CIB) service, you can carry out secure internet banking transactions and e-payments of all kinds, monitor trade transactions and administer payroll.  The bank is a solution guaranteed to increase your business efficiency by reducing manual processes while giving you the ability to make payments at any time and monitor your transactions every step of the way.  Amehnews recall that the Chairman of Zenith Bank Plc, Mr. Jim Ovia (CON), applauded the federal government’s economic team for pulling the economy out of economic recession, acknowledging that the country’s economic outlook shows that it is now on a growth trajectory.  Giving his goodwill message at the Deloitte in Dialogue Nigeria Economic Outlook 2019 event on Thursday, January 31, 2019 at the Civic Centre in Lagos, the Chairman of Zenith Bank, Jim Ovia focused on two key points – ease of doing business, and the nation’s inflation rate.  He commended the present economic team on the nation’s remarkable improvement on the ease of doing business index. Special praise was accorded the two ministers present at the event – the Honorable Minister of Finance, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed and the Honorable Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udo Udoma – as well as the Honorable Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, and the Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria.  While commending the ministers for an excellent job, Mr. Ovia charged them with the responsibility of further improving the nation’s ranking on the ease of doing business index. In his words, “the target for the ease of doing business for Nigeria in 2019 in terms of ranking should be single digit”.  According to Mr. Ovia, we are no longer in recession and we have been able to manage the rate of inflation. The outlook for the nation shows that we are “now on a growth trajectory”.  The bank operations has approved that the growth trajectory of the economy has impacted on its profit after tax soared to N193.147bn from N173.472bn last year. The Zenith Bank made market debut after its financial audited report with market cap of  795,901.12 bn share price at N25.35  grow by 5.63 on Tuesday  on the floor of the Exchange.  