The group of Manufacturers under the aegis of Nigerian Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) with over 2500 membership across all sectors of economy in its Annual Media Luncheon third edition held at MAN House on Awolowo Road, Ikeja Lagos, produced five categories of Awards covering Television, Printing, Online, Radio and Photo journalist respectively. Online Award category goes to mr Benjamin A Ameh, the publisher of amehnews as “The MAN Reporter of the Year 2018” for third times saying in recognition of your journalistic contributions to the growth and development of the manufacturing sector. Engr Ahmed Mansur, the President of MAN, said “that all journalists have indeed supported MAN through effective reporting of the Association’s activities. However, some of journalists do in depth reports and analysis on issues and policies affecting the manufacturing sector. Those groups of journalists through their stories have placed manufacturers’ challenges on the front burner of public discourse, conducted interviews and effectively utilsed MAN position papers, publications and press materials regularly. Those individuals are to be specially recognized through the awards. The organizer promised that the award would be improved upon from time to time. Therefore, the President urged journalists to improve on their support for the association as he looks for forward to honouring more journalists at next year’s event. According to the statement by organizer of the award saying “in acknowledgement of your in depth reporting of the activities of the manufacturing sector and the association in general” we present to you mr Benjamin A Ameh, the publisher of amehnews, the award of The MAN Reporter Of The Year 2018 In response to the award, the publisher of amehnews, mr Benjamin ameh said to God be the glory for me to have again this year making it third times. From my passion of writing and positing stories on www.amehnews.com regularly has caused someone or group of people over 2500 membership to assessed and monitored my work worth of award not even one, two, but third times in series. This third time awards opened my inner mind even more that through doing usual or writing and posting stories on my media platform have attracted some group somewhere. ThankGod for those stories impacted on people in one way or others somewhere. My prayer is that may Lord God inspire me even more to improve on my writing in order to solve people problems. Writes to help people solves their problems is my heart desired. For those who are interested in participating in this year 2019’s own which has started from January through to December stories with byline or any journalist covering industry, manufacturing, trades, and commerce as a beat. The entries will be opened to submit your stories by late November/December early this year and then entries will be closed within the middle/ three weeks of December, or there about to enable the organizer to see/listen/read, check and screen every entries sent for the award proper in January 2020 in the following year.  