The Managing Director of Nigerian Airspace Management Agency (NAMA), Captain Fola Akinkuotu has stated that the Total Radar Coverage of Nigeria (TRACON) in the country would in a few months’ time undergo a total reconditioning process to ensure that the entire system attains the acceptable reliability level as specified by the International Civil Aviation organisation (ICAO). He described this process as a sort of ‘’Turn-around-maintenance’’ which is to be carried out by Thales Group from France who manufactured the spares – MESI 1400A power supply modules, control units and others – acquired by NAMA  for the continuous service and operation of the TRACON. Akinkuotu said the acquisition of the spares for TRACON is in line with the agency’s decision to be proactive in maintaining the nation’s radar facility. ‘’Availability of spares would ensure that parts of the radar equipment would be readily available whenever they are needed. There are some that would immediately be used for replacement while others are kept in the warehouse pending when they will be needed and I can assure you that NAMA engineers have the capacity to undertake the maintenance of this facility as they have been always done in the past,’’ said Akinkuotu. The spares would be used by NAMA engineers to effect repairs on any of the nine TRACON installations across the country as may be required to ensure optimal functioning of the system. Speaking on the relationship between NAMA and Thales Group, Akinkuotu said ‘’the relationship between NAMA and the equipment manufacturer, Thales has never been a frosty one as some media report would have it. In fact, it has been very cordial and we are poised to continue to keep it that way. You will recall that we cleared some consignments of TRACON last year from the same Thales.’’ He disclosed that apart from the spares already received, another consignment of spares part has landed Apapa port and is being presently cleared while other consignments are already being shipped to Nigeria from France according to the shipping schedule sent to the agency by Thales, adding that payment has already been made for all consignments ordered for. 