Ahead of its secondary listing by the way of introduction on the floor of Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Airtel Africa Plc plans to use it leadership control in data, voice and mobile money penetration to grow its earnings. Segun Ogunsanya, the Chief Executive of Airtel Nigeria disclosed this to capital market community at the company’s facts before listing in Lagos.Managing Director / Chief Executive of Airtel Nigeria,Segun Ogunsanya. Addressing the investing community on the floor of the NSE, Ogunsanya said, the company will pay out 80 percent of its results to shareholders as dividend. The Airtel listing on the NSE is coming after its London Stock Exchange (LSE) primarily listing, which followed a book building process that saw investors purchase 637,178,979 ordinary shares of 50 Cents at 80 Pence per share.  Airtel Nigeria CEO said that the listing will be done in the next few days after the Initial Public Offers (IPOs) may have concluded and fulfilling all regulatory requirements. And then come back to be listed in the dual/cross-border listing on the NSE main board is the entire issued 3,758,151,504 ordinary shares of Airtel Africa Plc. “Our Leadership Position in Africa is well-diversified and leading mobile operator with scale across footprint, well suited platform to efficiently monetise data and mobile money potential and proven support from globally recognised shareholders.”  He reiterated that Airtel Africa with operations in 14 African countries would be listed at N363 per share on the Nigerian Stock Exchange.  In this case, a secondary listing is when securities already listed on a primary exchange are subsequently listed on other securities exchanges, with the Issuer not subjected to the full requirements applicable to listing on the other securities exchange(s) at which it seeks a secondary listing.  While a book building is defined as a price discovery mechanism that is used in the capital market to price securities for public sale for the first time. When shares are being offered for sale in an IPO, it can either be done at a fixed price or at a price range.  If the company is not sure about the exact price at which to market its shares, it can decide to adopt a price range instead of an exact figure. The method of offering shares by providing a price range is called a book building method. The price range sets a floor price and the highest price in which investors can bid.  Airtel Africa Plc (Airtel Africa) is the holding company of Airtel Networks Limited (Airtel Nigeria) and thirteen (13) other subsidiaries in Africa – Airtel Congo S.A., Airtel Gabon S.A., Celtel Niger S.A., Airtel Congo RDC S.A. (DRC). Airtel Tanzania Plc, Airtel Networks Zambia Plc, Airtel Networks Kenya Limited, Airtel Tchad S.A., Airtel Madagascar S.A, Airtel Malawi Limited, Airtel Rwanda Limited, Airtel Uganda Limited and Airtel (Seychelles) Limited.  He disclosed that Airtel Africa has 99Million Mobile Subscribers, 30Million Data Subscribers and 14Million Airtel Money Active Users respectively. Based on numbers of subscribers as of December 2018, Airtel Nigeria is currently offering mobile money services in partnership with a licenced bank, but it has also submitted its application for licence as a payment service bank, added Ogunsanya.  Also speaking during the Facts Before Listing of Airtel Africa today, the Nigerian Stock Exchange, Chief Executive, Oscar Onyema said as you are aware, the shares were listed at an offer price of 80 pence per ordinary share on the main market of the London Stock Exchange and is expected to be listed at 363 Naira per ordinary share on the Main Board of The Nigerian Stock Exchange, making Airtel Africa the first telecom company to simultaneously list on both Exchanges.  Onyema pointed out that Airtel Africa is a leading provider of telecommunications and mobile money services, with presence in 14 countries spread across East, Central and West Africa (including Nigeria). Listing on the Exchange reaffirms its long-term commitment to expanding opportunities for Nigerians in addition to providing everyday services to them. This listing serves to deepen the telecoms and technology sector for investors and provides an opportunity for a wider group of Nigerians to be part of the African telecoms growth story.  In His Words: “This listing is a promising development in Africa with Airtel Africa being the second company to have its ordinary shares listed on both the London Stock Exchange and the Nigerian Stock Exchange. This gives credence to the successful partnership between the two exchanges and we encourage similarly situated companies to explore the different opportunities for raising capital on the Exchange’s platform.”  Furthermore, NSE CEO noted that it shows the confidence Airtel Africa has in our platform, which has a total market capitalization of N25.20Tn across various asset classes. Airtel Africa’s listing on the NSE will not only showcase the company as an established player in the African Telecommunication Industry, but will enable the firm to actualize its strategic vision “To enrich the lives of customers”. This listing is a result of many months of hard work by all parties to the transaction and will add N1.36Tn to the market capitalization of The Exchange, further deepening the Nigerian Capital Market. It will also increase the visibility of Airtel Africa whilst differentiating its brand as a major player in the Telecommunication sector.  “The Nigerian Stock Exchange will continue to support the Telecom Industry and the real sector by promoting efficient capital formation and allocation, enabling industries to raise long-term funds for growth & expansion of their business to reduce unemployment and sustain Nigeria’s economic growth Page 2 of 2 and development. These are evident in the increasing number of capital market instruments traded on the exchange and the tremendous increase in the size of market capitalization.”