A Leading Cement Company in Sub-Saharan Africa, Dangote Cement with operations in ten countries stated in its Annual Report 2018 that the company will open Export Facilities in Lagos and Port Harcourt that will enable the company to export clinker, initially to its grinding facility in Cameroon and then to new grinding plants in West Africa. Not only will these generate useful foreign currency for Dangote cement to support other expansion projects outside of Nigeria, they will also help to increase the output of our Nigerian plants. These will help to improve job creations and increase prosperity in Nigeria, something of which all shareholders and stakeholders can be proud. The management said that only a few ago, Nigeria was one of the world’s largest importer of cement but Dangote cement will continuing its transformation of Nigeria into an exporter of this basic, but vital commodity. Dangote Commitment to building a prosperous and sustainable future for all Stakeholders, including the local communities that host our operations across Africa. The report disclose that Dangote Cement’s first ever Sustainability Week, last year was full of educational and community events designed to raise our collective awareness about how can build a more sustainable business which was huge success, taken up with great enthusiasm by staff across our ten countries, who took part in initiatives such as educational workshops, litter cleaning and donations to local community hospitals. We will continue to improve our efforts in sustainability by applying ‘The Dangote Way’ to the 7 sustainability pillars of our business culture and operations. Amehnews recalled that in November last year, Dangote Cement adopted the Sustainability Charter of the Global Cement and Concrete Association, of which we are a member. “The Charter commits us to staandardised and externally verified Sustainability reporting in five areas:  health and safety, climate change and energy, social responsibility, environment and nature, and the circular economy.” These align with the efforts we are pursuing in our 7 Sustainability Pillars approach. We at Dangote are committed to bringing our Sustainability efforts very quickly up to the levels that our international cement industry peers achieved after many years of work. The report also disclosed that year under review showed Dangote business performance as most successful year ever in history, as it recorded 7.4percent growth cement sales to 23.5million (metric tons) an 11.9percent growth in revenues to N901.2billion, with EBITDA up 12.1percent to N435.3billion, at a margin of 48.3percent. Also with net profit of N390.3billion and earnings stood at N22.83 per share.  The Caption Photo: The President of Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote 