The Apapa Tin-can Island Port, Customs Command generated and collected a total of one hundred and seventy-Nine billion, two hundred and seventy-five million, six hundred and twenty-nine thousand, one hundred and seventy Naira, seventy-four Kobo (N179,275,629,170.74) between January and July 10, 2019.According to the record, the Command realized one hundred and seventy-two billion, five hundred and fourteen million, three hundred and fifty-nine thousand, and seventy-six Naira, eighty-three Kobo (N172,514,359,076.83). Thus report represents an increase of 52.28% stands as six billion, seven hundred and sixty-one million, two hundred and seventy thousand, and ninety-three Naira, ninety-one Kobo (N6, 761,270,093.91) from the record of the previous year annual target.  The command said following the renewed enthusiasm and development of Standard Operational Procedures (SOP) for operational efficiency.  The Command has witnessed a major paradigm in its statutory functions.  This trajectory provided the needed impetus for the smooth implementation of the Presidential Directives on Ease of Doing Business.  Generally speaking, Comptroller MBA MUSA, Customs Area Controller of Tin-can Island Port, Apapa said that “it is instructive to note that the command has gone beyond Revenue Collection/generation, to creating an enabling environment for Legitimate businesses to thrive in line with the Presidential mandate, with the resolve by the Command to achieve speedy clearance of cargo from the Ports and also reduce the cost of doing business.  It is all these several factors that have projected the command as a hub and most business friendly with remarkable profile.”  According to the Comptr, the Command wishes to reiterate its commitment towards realizing and even surpassing the revenue target for 2019 as we urge our esteemed stakeholders and officers/men to rise up to this challenge.  The breakdown of the figures of the revenue collection from January through to July 10, 2019 showed  Sequel to the urgent need for balance of trade through Export, the Command, during the period under review embarked on full automation of Export procedures as a panacea for seamless transactions.  To this effect, the Command achieved a total of 150,930.7 Metric Tonnes of Export with FOB Value of Sixty-Eight Billion, Eight Hundred and Eighty-Seven Million, Two hundred and Twenty-Six Thousand, Four Hundred and Ninety-Three Naira (N68,887,226,493.00). It will be recalled that the Command, during the preceding year of 2018, recorded 118,452.87MTS of Export with FOB of Sixty-Three Million, One Hundred and Nine Thousand, Four Hundred and Twenty-Seven Naira (N63,109,427.00).  The milestones recorded in the area of Export are clearly indicative of awareness by Stakeholders on the available opportunities inherent in Export business.  The Command will continue to sensitize and encourage would be Exporters.  The Command is leaving no stone unturned in the area of anti-smuggling in view of the devastating effect of smuggling to the Nation and its implications on Lives and Security. Consequently, deliberate and concerted efforts are being made to ensure that examination and releasing officers remain proactive/preemptive in the discharge of their statutory functions.  Consequent upon the anti-smuggling drive by the Area Controller, the Command recorded seizures of 5 x 40ft and 4 x 20ft containers consisting of various uncustom goods during the period under review ranging from used tyres and used rims, bags of rice, cartons of Tramadol and other pharmaceuticals with a total Duty Paid Value (DPV) of One Billion, One Hundred and Fifty-Nine Million, Two Hundred and Fifteen Thousand, Six Hundred and Thirty-Seven Naira (N1,159,215,637.00).  The command disclosed that the need for facilitation of Legitimate Trade is at the front burner of our discourse, and this necessitated the creation of various platforms for expeditious resolution of disputes and issues related thereto. The platforms includes but not limited to; This approach has led to the speedy resolution of disputes arising from Valuation, Classification, PAAR etc at least to the barest minimum. The Command is also working out actionable modalities for the use of Barges in transferring Cargo from the Mother Port to off-dock Terminals. This is with a view to reducing congestion and speed up cargo delivery considering the fact that Cargo throughput is increasing, and road infrastructure is overstretched.   The Command will continue to strive for excellence in achieving the mandate of the Comptroller General of Customs, Col Hameed Ibrahim Ali (Rtd) and his able Management.  In the same vein, efforts will remain in top gear towards the removal of Bureaucratic bottlenecks and impediments in the trade value chain. Our ultimate aim is not just to key into the Presidential Directives on Ease of Doing Business which is in line with World Customs Organization’s (WCO) Trade Facilitation Agenda but to be seen as being at the Vanguard.  In the words of Comptroller MBA MUSA: “The Command would like to appreciate the support and collaboration between inter Government Agencies – Standard Organization of Nigeria (SON), National Agency for Food, Drugs, Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Nigeria Police, Quarantine, National Environmental   Standard and Regulation Enforcement Agency (NESREA), Importers, Agents and Other Critical Stakeholders including the Press both Print, Electronic and Online in this onerous task of Nation Building.”      