President Muhammadu Buhari has signed the bill for an Act establishing the Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria (CIOTA). This follows the passage of the bill by both chambers of the National Assembly for Presidential Accent.Disclosing the development to journalists in Lagos, the President of CIOTA, Dr. Bashir Jamoh commended the President for his speedy response to the bill. He said that the Presidential Accent shows how important the President Buhari led Federal Government takes the issue of transportation and that the institute will continue to do all it can to bring to the fore steps to address the areas of concern that would enhance transportation in Nigeria. According to Dr. Jamoh “ The Bill Establishing the Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria has got the much awaited Presidential accent and this goes to show that this Government is willing to tackle the issue of transportation through studies and researches. As a chartered institute we would continue to do our best to bring to the front burner germane issues that would grow our transport sector especially how to enhance the country’s intermodal transport system” he said. Explaining the bill, the CIOTA President said that the Act that establishes the institute charges it with the responsibility of advancing the study, training and practice of transport management and administration in Nigeria and other related matters. He said this afford members of CIOTA an avenue to continuously contribute to matters regarding transportation in Nigeria. A duty which he promised the association under his watch would be dedicated to. In his words “this bill assures all our members of the Professional status of our institute and encourage others to join us as we strive to help the Government revamp the entire transport sector”  IOTA Nigeria an affiliate of IOTA United Kingdom which was established as The Institute of Transport Administration was founded in 1944 as The Institute of Traffic Administration. By special resolution passed on 29 January 1981 the Institute’s membership resolved to change its name to The Institute of Transport Administration. The original objectives, which continue to this day, are to broadening and improve the knowledge, skills and experience of its members in the practice of efficient and effective transport management, relating to all spheres of transportation including road, rail, sea, air as well as pipelines. This is achieved by maintaining and enhancing the professional standing and knowledge of transport management through the Institute’s education, training and compliance programs and meetings, by providing considered professional opinion on current and proposed transport legislation. Dr. Bashir Jamoh was elected the President of the Institute in February 2019 and he promised that one of the first hurdles he would like to cross was to make IOTA a Chartered institute which he has successfully achieved.  The Caption Photo: The President, Chartered Institute of Transport Administration of Nigeria (CIOTA), Dr. Bashir Jamoh 