…Rewards Hackathon Challenge Winner MTN Nigeria plc has concluded the 2019 edition of its annual 21 Days of Y’ello Care. The colourful closing ceremony recently took place at the Company’s head office in Ikoyi, Lagos.L-R Chief Executive Officer, MTN Nigeria, Ferdi Moolman; Director, MTN Foundation, MTN Nigeria, Hon. Reginald Okeya; Director MTN Foundation, MTN Nigeria, Aisha Sadauki, Chief Operating Officer, MTN Nigeria, Mazen Mroue and A representative of Huawie Eason Yi at the Closing Ceremony of the 21 Days Of Y’ello Care, which held on Friday the 21st of June 2019. The 2019 edition of the annual event provided an opportunity for MTN employees to participate in community projects that positively influenced the youths and society in general. With the theme, “Creating a Brighter Future for the youths,” the corporate social responsibility initiative focused on targeted efforts aimed at youth empowerment and developing Nigeria’s burgeoning tech ecosystem for greater impact in national developmental efforts.  With Mental Health Awareness as a major part of this year’s activities, the company’s employees across major cities in Nigeria embarked on an8km walk to create awareness for mental health. The walk in Lagos was in conjunction with the Lagos University Teaching Hospital Suicide Research and Prevention Initiative. There was a digital media training session for young Nigerians that was aimed at raising suicide prevention media advocates. Another critical aspect of this year’s edition of the 21 days initiative was the hackathon, which challenged young software developers to create critical solutions to health problems using technology. Presenting the cheque of one hundred thousand naira (N100,000) to the winner of the hackathon challenge, the CEO, MTN Nigeria, Ferdi Moolman urged the winner, Richard Igiriki to make the most of the opportunity that has been presented him. He encouraged him and his team to ensure that the Bloodshare App that they have developed go mainstream so that blood donors can easily be matched with the right hospitals.  During the 21 days, MTN staff across Nigeria provided technical training for students and teachers, as well as setup e-libraries in over 22 secondary schools across Nigeria. Career experts provided information technology trainings at select secondary schools and skill acquisition centres across the country.  About MTN Nigeria MTN Nigeria is Africa’s largest provider of communications services, connecting over 60 million people in communities across the country with each other and the world.  Guided by a vision to lead the delivery of a bold new digital world, MTN Nigeria’s leadership position in coverage, capacity and innovation has remained constant, since its launch in 2001. MTN Nigeria is part of the MTN Group – a leading emerging market operator, connecting more than 200 million subscribers in 21 countries in Africa and the Middle East. To learn more about MTN Nigeria and its various initiatives, visit www.mtnonline.com