Doyen of advertising in Nigeria and Chairman, Troyka Holdings, Biodun Shobanjo will be honoured at the maiden edition of the Brandcom Awards with a prestigious ‘Hall of Fame’ recognition, the biggest honour for the night.  The event will hold at the Shell Hall, Muson Centre, Onikan, Lagos on Friday May 24th, 2019 by 6pm.  Brandcom Awards is the celebration of the exploits and achievements of brands, agencies and notable players with remarkable impacts in the brands and marketing industry. Many other notable individuals aside Shobanjo will also be honoured at the event.  It is noteworthy that Brandcom Awards is the award part of Brandcomfest, the other part is a two-day summit from Thursday to Friday May 23 to 24, 2019, by 9am daily at the same venue of the awards.  Organisers of the event said Shobanjo has contributed immensely to the integrated marketing communications industry, the business community and the country at large. He has also contributed to human capacity development, as he is a mentor to many successful marketing communications practitioners and business owners in the country and beyond.  In addition, the organisers disclosed that all the awardees were painstakingly assessed by a panel of assessors who worked on the mantra of Prestige, Integrity and Credibility.  Some of the awards categories are marketing communications group of the year, creative advertising agency of the year, experiential agency of the year, public relations agency of the year, commercial bank brand of the year, fintech brand of the year, mobile phone brand of the year, brand manager of the year, marketing manager of the year and among others.  According to Joshua Ajayi, convener of Brandcomfest and publisher of Brand Communicator, “Brandcom Awards rewards outstanding brands, agencies and individuals which Biodun Shobanjo is one of them. Biodun Shobanjo will be honoured with the Hall of Fame for his immense contribution to the growth of integrated marketing industry and the business world generally.”  Shobanjo commenced his communication career with the former Nigerian Broadcasting Corporation, now Federal Radio Corporation, in 1964 as a studio manager. After leaving in 1971, he joined the American-Nigerian agency Grant Adverting. He rose to the post of Deputy Managing Director of Grant Advertising before his 30th birthday. He co-founded Insight Communications (now Insight Publicis) in 1979 and has today grown the company from the initial 18-man strong team into an advertising behemoth.  The Troyka Holdings warehouses companies which specialises in Media Buying, Digital Marketing, Consumer Engagement Consultancy, Out of Home Advertising, Public Relations, Creative Advertising, Property Development, Security and Protection, Concession Management among others.  Brandcom Award and Brandcomfest is organised by Brand Communicator, Nigeria’s most consistent brand and marketing communications magazine. Brand Communicator is also the organiser of Women in Marketing and Communications Conference/Awards (WIMCA), the largest gathering of female marketing and communications professionals in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa. It is also a partner to the two biggest creative advertising shows on the continent, Loeries Africa Middle East and African Cristal Festival. The platform was named PR magazine of the year 2017 and 2018 by the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR), Lagos Chapter.