All is set for the MTN Nigeria Communications Plc to be listed on the Premium Board of The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) on tomorrow (May 16, 2019) by way of an introductory listing.  The listing by introduction means that the shares of existing MTN Nigeria shareholders will be listed without an additional public sale of shares through Initial Public Offers (IPO) or other wise they have enough capital for the operations already. If listed tomorrow by the authority of the exchange, all MTN Nigeria shareholders and potential investor will be free to trade their shares on the floor of NSE. Commenting on the announcement, Ferdi Moolman, CEO of MTN Nigeria said: “It gives me great pleasure to confirm that the official listing via introduction of MTN’s shares on the NSE will take place on Thursday May 16.” “We appreciate the continued support afforded us by the government, regulators and people of this great nation. In particular, I would like to thank the staff and management of MTN Nigeria who worked tirelessly to make tomorrow possible. This is just the beginning; we still intend to pursue a future Public Offer giving more Nigerians greater access to the MTN opportunity.” While, MTN Group CFO, Ralph Mupita said: “As MTN Group we are very pleased that we are taking this first and important step towards increasing the local ownership of the company, and building the equity capital markets in Nigeria” Amehnews recall that MTN Nigeria recently announced its earnings for the first quarter ended March 31, 2019 recording 13.4% growth in service revenue. This was driven by a 12.7% and 32.4% rise in voice and data revenue respectively and the addition of 2.1 million active mobile subscribers to the network. The company announced Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) ofN150.4 billion and expanded EBITDA margins to 53.3%(44.2%, on an IAS 17 basis)due to growth in revenue and effective cost management. About MTN Nigeria MTN Nigeria is one of Africa’s largest providers of communication services, connecting over 60 million people in communities across the country with each other and the world. Guided by a vision to lead the delivery of a bold new digital world, MTN Nigeria’s leadership position in coverage, capacity and innovation has remained constant, since its launch in 2001. MTN Nigeria is part of the MTN Group – a multinational telecommunications group which operates in 21 countries in Africa and the Middle East.