There were indications at the weekend that the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) has sought the support of the Commonwealth Enterprise Investment Council (CWEIC) in its search to seek out interested investors for some of the Council’s initiatives, particularly the Inland Dry Port Project. According to the report, the move became necessary, due to the slow pace of work on most of the Inland Dry Ports (IDPs) in five geo-political zones of the country, as a result of paucity of funds. A dry port or inland port is an inland intermodal terminal directly connected by road or rail to a seaport and operating as a centre for the transshipment of sea cargo to inland destinations A reliable source within the NSC which spoke on conditions of anonymity disclosed that the council was currently working on assisting the concessionaires in bringing in investors and necessary funding needed to spur the development of the dry ports.You will recalled that apart from the Kaduna IDP which has taken off since January last year, the rest of the IDP projects are yet to be completed by the concessionaires due to lack of finance. To ensure a timely completion by the concessionaires, the Council said they approached the Commonwealth Enterprise Investment Council (CWEIC) to assist in the search for interested investors for the IDP projects. It was gathered that the Executive Secretary, NSC, Mr. Hassan Bello has already visited the London office of the body which was established in 2014 with mandate from Commonwealth Heads of Government to promote intra-commonwealth trade and  investments across the 53 member countries. CWEIC is responsible for organizing the Commonwealth Business Forum alongside the biennial Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting and Commonwealth Trade Ministers Meeting on alternative years. Bello also led the Council’s management team to attend the Advisory Council Meeting of CWEIC held recently in Lagos during which a lot of business opportunities across and beyond Nigeria were laid bare. Specifically, the Council wants to attract investors from Commonwealth countries to show interest in the ICDs so that the remaining projects being handled by concessionaires can be completed as soon as possible. Apart from ICD projects, the Council is also interested in getting investors for other transport sector infrastructure projects, such as Truck Transit Parks (TTP) and Border Information Centre. Both ICD and TTP projects are considered as having multiplier effects on the national economy with thousands of jobs to be created when completed Meanwhile the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) fine tunes plans, to commission two transit parks at Lillypond and Tin can Island Second Gate, a step towards curbing the dread traffic gridlock in Apapa, nation’s mother-port arena. An intractable gridlock which for more than two years, took over the whole of Apapa, where the nation’s main wealth, outside crude oil is baked, also shows the quality and capacity of those in authority to tackle industry challenges. The NPA Spokesman, Adams Jatto in a statement, said his Executive Director, Marine and Operations, Dr Davies Sekonte told a maritime stakeholders meeting in Lagos that priority would now be given to truckers with empties and exports; pointing out that the meeting was held as part of efforts to end the persistent gridlocks at Apapa port and its environ. According to him, the commissioning of two transit parks will also improve service delivery across board. While rolling out the management’s plan, Sekonte reinstated that the NPA, being the ports landlord, would not fold its arms and allow for total breakdown of the system. ‘’We will take the bull by the horn and proffer permanent solution to the menace in view of the role the sector plays in the life of the nation’s economy,” he said. According to Sekonte, some of the plans put in place include mandating the incoming Task Force to ensure that all trucks are not allowed to park on the bridges forthwith. “Shipping Lines and Terminal Operators must synergise their operations to ensure the success of the call up system. “Security agencies are to remove all category of trucks milling round the port environment and traffic and law enforcement agents to ensure that the Tincan Island – Mile 2 corridor axis is open for optimal traffic and port management. “In addition, the various sectional heads from the NPA involved in the exercise resolved that enforcement would be total whilst calling on the support and understanding from all involved,” Sekonte said. He said that the trailer parks were a transit point, and would also ensure that broken down trucks were towed away on a penalty. Sekonte, however, urged all concerned that a platform would be made available for complaints to be lodged by stakeholders. Also at the meeting, the Director General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Dakuku Peterside, who was represented by Mrs Anna Akpan, Assistant Director, Shipping Development, commended NPA for the bold steps. ‘’The ease of access into the port and the provision as well as maintenance of the facilities to create a free flow of activities cannot be over emphasised as it will enhance the flow and increase of revenue to both the authority and government,’’ Peterside said. On their part, the maritime stakeholders urged NPA to involve their members in relevant committees and pledged their loyalty to NPA in ensuring that the Call Up System was effectively implemented. Stakeholders also said that call up system would improve the growth and development of the maritime sector and most especially the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). A stakeholder and participant at the meeting, who spoke on condition anonymity while praising the NPA however, also noted that the gesture was coming a lot too late. “Too little, too late”, he stressing, when they know they would source the trucks parking lots, what was the essence of the braggado with shipping companies and terminal operators?” he asked, adding that it was nonetheless commendable that the Management finally woke up from its slumber. Present at the event were representatives of terminal operators, shipping lines, Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria, Nigerian Association of Road Transport Owners and other critical stakeholders.   