It was a night to recognize excellence, professionalism, innovations and creativity at the maiden edition of the BrandCom Awards that held at the Shell hall of the MUSON Centre yesterday as deserving individuals, brands and organisations were variously awarded.L-R: Joshua Ajayi, Publisher Brand Communicator and Convener of Brandcom Awards; Ijedi Iyoha, represented by Susan Agbo, an APCON Representative, Biodun Shobanjo, Chairman Troyka Holdings and inductee of Brandcom Award’s Hall of Fame;  Olusegun McMedal, Chairman, Lagos NIPR; Jimi Awosika, Executive Vice Chairman , Troyka Holdings; Ade Adefeko, Head Corporate & Government Relations, Olam Nigeria at the Brandcom Awards held at Muscon Centre, Onikan, LagosSpeaking on the awards, the Convener of BRANDCOM Awards-a part of BRANDCOMFEST, Joshua Ajayi said the platform came to fore following calls for years from stakeholders in the IMC industry that felt there is so much more that needs to be done in that regards. “For years, many stakeholders have reached us at Brand Communicator, asking why we do not have a platform that recognises and rewards excellence in this very vibrant industry. “Distinguished guests, we shied away from this onerous responsibility to concentrate on projecting the industry as we felt there are enough platforms for this already. However, we have also been inundated with complaints about the falling integrity of awards in recent times where recognition is reserved for the highest bidder rather than merit which should be the norm. “At Brand Communicator, we felt this industry deserves better, hence we came up with the BRANDCOM Awards. In line with our tagline of Prestige, Integrity and Credibility, we had a panel of assessors set up to painstakingly review our nominations. The result is all the agencies, brands and individuals here present to receive one form of recognition or the other,” he said. The doyen of advertising, Biodun Shobanjo was officially inducted into the BrandCom Hall of Fame for his many contributions to the growth of the IMC industry in Nigeria and Africa. Speaking on him, Ajayi said, “The growth we have recorded today in the IMC industry is one that is enviable and remains so because of the contributions of great people like the doyen of advertising, Mr Biodun Shobanjo. For his likes, it is only befitting that he makes the prestigious BRANDCOM Awards’ Hall of Fame-the biggest award for the night. Among other numerous awards, Shobanjo has received the 2017 Silverbird ‘Extraordinary Business Achievement Award’ in recognition of his immense contributions to the Nigerian Society. The following month, on March 15th, 2018, Daar Communications also honoured him with the Daar Lifetime Achievement Award for his remarkable contributions to the development of the advertising industry in Africa. A quiet philanthropist and public-spirited Nigerian, Mr. Shobanjo in February 2010, was inaugurated as the First Ambassador-General of Mass Medical Mission (MMM) of National Cancer Prevention Programme (NCPP). In the brand category, GTBank was awarded Commercial Bank Brand of the Year while Access Bank carted away two awards; SME Friendly Bank of the Year and Best Brand in Sustainability. LAPO Microfinance got awarded Microfinance Bank Brand of the Year; Tecno, Mobile Phone Brand of the Year, Haier Thermocool, Home Appliance Brand of the Year, Pepsi, Carbonated Soft Drink of the Year; Dano, Dairy Brand of the Year; Milo, Beverage Drink Brand of the Year; MTN, Telecom Brand of the Year (Voice) and Airtel, Telecom Brand of the Year (Data). Other awardees are: Maltina, Malt Drink Brand of the Year; Indomie, Noodles Brand of the Year; Oral B, Oral Care Brand of the Year; Sunlight, Detergent Brand of the Year; Maggi, Seasoning Brand of the Year; DSTV, Pay TV Brand of the Year, Domino’s Pizza, Quick Service Restaurant Brand of the Year; ALAT By WEMA and Digital Bank Brand of the Year. The big winners for the night came from Hayat Kimya as its flagship, Molfix was awarded Diaper Brand of the Year and Brand of the Year. In the agency category, Insight Redefini was recognised with the Marketing Communications Group of the Year award, even as its subsidiary, Leo Burnett was awarded Young Creative Advertising Agency of the Year. The Media Independent Agency of the Year award went to Mediareach OMD and Digital Marketing Agency of the Year award was given to Isobar. Oracle Experience was awarded the Experiential Marketing Agency of the Year, Noah’s Ark, Creative Advertising Agency of the Year while BHM was awarded the PR Agency of the Year. Audio Visual Production Company of the Year went to IBST Media, MooreAdvice won the Visual Branding Agency of the Year award, LSF PR Young Public Relations Agency of the Year while Young Out-Of-Home Advertising Agency of the Year award went to Alpha & Jam. Individual Awards Category had the Marketing Manager of Hayat Kimya, Roseline Abaraonye emerging as the Marketing Manager of the Year while Brand Manager of Molfix, Chioma Mgbaramuko was awarded the Brand Manager of the Year. The Public Relations Manager of Multichoice Nigeria, Caroline Oghuma, got the Public Relations Manager of the Year award while Daniel Obi of BusinessDay Newspaper got the Brand Journalist of the Year. 