L-R: Barrister Talabi Adekitan, Senior Manager, Legal Services and Claims, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited; Major General Samson Odunsi (Rtd), Baba Ijo, St. Mark’s Anglican Church, Isade-Ijebu and Right Reverend Ayodele Awosoga, Bishop of Ijebu Diocese (Anglican Communion) during the commissioning of the newly-built community clinic and hall donated by SIFAX Group to the Isade-Ijebu Community. In furtherance of its commitment to the philosophy of impacting the society, SIFAX Group, a group of companies with investment in Maritime, Aviation, Oil & Gas, Haulage & Logistics, Financial Services and Hospitality, has donated a modern and well-equipped clinic and civic hall to the Isade-Ijebu community in the Ijebu North East Local Government Area of Ogun State. Both facilities will be managed by St. Mark’s Anglican Church, Isade-Ijebu, on behalf of the community. The clinic, a multi-million naira building with several wards, dispensary and consulting rooms, will serve the medical needs of the church, Isade-Ijebu community as well as the various adjoining villages. The clinic and the hall were commissioned by Right Reverend Ayodele Awosoga, the Bishop of Ijebu Diocese (Anglican Communion). Right Reverend Ayodele Awosoga, the Bishop of Ijebu Diocese (Anglican Communion) (m) commissioning the newly-built community clinic donated by SIFAX Group to the Isade-Ijebu Community while other guests looks on. Speaking at the commissioning ceremony attended by clergy and laity across the diocese, community leaders, other religious bodies, among others, Awosoga eulogised Dr. Taiwo Afolabi, Group Executive Vice Chairman, SIFAX Group and the company for the donation, adding that the new clinic and hall have made the church and the Isade-Ijebu community an envy among their contemporaries. “I want to thank Dr. Taiwo Afolabi and SIFAX Group for being a great blessing to the church and this community. As we all know that health is wealth, this new clinic will provide easy access to good and affordable health care for all the villages around here. The hall also will provide a befitting venue for church and social activities. Overall, the lives of our people will become better by the reason of this philanthropic gestures. Barrister Talabi Adekitan, Senior Manager, Legal Services and Claims, Ports & Cargo Handling Services Limited during the commissioning and unveiling of the newly-built community clinic and hall for the Isade-Ijebu Community “I enjoin other wealthy individuals and corporate organisations to emulate this worthy initiative by coming to the aid of rural communities through the provision of critical facilities.” Barrister Talabi Adekitan, Senior Manager, Legal Services and Claims, SIFAX Group, who led the team to the event, said the company believed in positively impacting the society, noting that three key areas of social intervention – health, education and youth empowerment – have been the focus of the company’s CSR programmes. It would be recalled that, in 2017, SIFAX Group also donated a multi-million naira four-bedroom flat and a two-room chalet that currently serve as the church’s vicarage and guest house. 