The Federal Government on Thursday inaugurated the governing board of the National Bureau of Statistics. The inauguration was done by the Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udo Udoma. Udoma told the board members that they should see their appointments as a call to national service, adding that the NBS was critical to the implementation of the Federal Government’s economic agenda. He warned members of the board against interfering in the day-to-day operations of their respective agencies, adding that such task should be left to the chief executive of the NBS alone. He urged the board members to come up with innovative policies that would support the mandate of the NBS in supporting the diversification of the economy. The minister charged the new board to work in harmony with the management of the bureau to achieve its goals, especially considering the important role that the NBS plays in nation building He pointed out that the roles and responsibilities of the Governing Boards of Parastatals and Agencies as provided in their respective establishment Acts were quite distinct from the day-to-day administration of parastatals and agencies under the leadership of chief executives who double as accounting officers. The minister stated that strict adherence to statutory provisions by both parties would enhance harmonious relationship devoid of bickering and other unhealthy occurrences. He said, “Considering the important roles that the NBS plays in nation building, the need for a supportive Governing Board cannot be over-emphasised. “However, it is important to point out that your appointment is on a part-time basis. You are required to work with the management of the NBS to determine its mission and long-term strategy roles and responsibilities, and develop strategies to promote sustainable and cost-efficient activities of the bureau. “Full details of your duties and responsibilities are prescribed in the enabling Act of the NBS, which will be handed over to you at the end of the inauguration ceremony. I urge you to become familiar with it. “Let me restate that the roles and responsibilities of the Governing Boards of Parastatals and Agencies as provided in their respective establishment Acts are quite distinct from the day-to-day administration of Parastatals and Agencies under the leadership of chief executives who doubles as accounting officers. “Strict adherence to statutory provisions by both parties will enhance harmonious relationship devoid of bickering and other unhealthy occurrences.” The Chairman of the Board, Dr Kabiru Nakaura, commended the president for the appointment and appreciated the minister for the inauguration. He pledged the willingness of the Board to discharge its responsibilities creditably. The 15-member governing Board comprises six political appointees and nine institutional members. The Statistician-General of the Federation, Dr Yemi Kale, will serve as Secretary. The other members are Prof Moses Momoh, Mr Adam Modu, Mr Akinola Bashiru, Chief Paul Chukwudi, and Mr Wallijoh Ahijoh. The institutional members are Minister of Budget and National Planning, Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria, Minister of Finance, Minister of Education, Minister of Agriculture, Group Managing Director of the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation, President of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, President of the Nigeria Statistical Association and the Chief Executive Officer of the NBS.