BRAND COMMUNICATOR, Nigeria’s most consistent brand and marketing communications magazine is set to organise BRANDCOMFEST scheduled for Thursday and Friday, May 23rd and 24th at the prestigious Shell Hall, Muson Centre, Onikan, Lagos. BRANDCOMFEST was designed to be the largest gathering of stakeholders in the brand and marketing communications landscape, which caters to the most contemporary and topical issues in the industry, the foremost thought-leadership platform for stakeholders within the brands and marketing communications value chain, and also the most credible and prestigious platform recognising, rewarding and inspiring agencies, brands and individuals in the marketing communications and media landscape in Nigeria.  According to Joshua Ajayi, convener of BRANDCOMFEST and publisher of Brand Communicator, “The essence of organising BRANDCOMFEST is to serve as our own way of linking the future, in line with the vision which we have religiously kept faith with since we hit the newsstands over a decade ago.  “Also, the event will serve as a rallying point for integrated marketing communications practitioners to chart a new course for the industry.  “There is no platform of convergence for stakeholders in the IMC value chain to foster co creation while addressing each of the challenges of the sub sectors. Hence, BRANDCOMFEST was conceived to bridge this gap.”  Consequently, as part of the activities lined up for the maiden edition of BRANDCOMFEST, the editorial board has concluded plans to organise a two-day high profile event with the theme, ‘Digital Disruption And The Future Of Brands And Marketing Communications’ amidst other sessions ranging from Experiential Marketing, Out-of-Home Advertising, Sustainability, Public Relations, Media Investment, Agency Business and Brands and Agencies Success Stories session. The sessions will take place from 9am each day.  Interestingly, over 48 Integrated Marketing Communications (IMC) experts are billed to speak as keynote speakers and panelists at the event. On the first day, topics such as Digital disruption and the future of Brands and Marketing Communications, The future of Experiential Marketing in a Technologically Driven World, The future of Out of Home Advertising in the Face of Digital Disruption, Sustainability and Eﬀective Brand Building for the Future, Digital Disruption and the Future of Public Relations Practice will be deliberated upon.  On the second day, experts will discuss topics ranging from Media Investments, Evolving Trends, Challenges & Opportunities to Agency Business: Sustainable Agency Models in the Face of Disruption, and Brands and Agencies’ Success Stories. The topics will be discussed by Media independent, advertising industry and brand management experts respectively.  BRANDCOMFEST will be spiced with the celebration of the exploits and achievements of brands, agencies and notable players with remarkable impacts in the brand and marketing industry. Some of these agencies, brands and individuals will receive BRANDCOM AWARDS at an A-Class event to be attended by top corporate players at the Shell Hall, Muson Centre, Onikan, Lagos on Friday May 24th, 2019 by 6pm.  Organisers of the event said all the recipients will be awarded as a product of pain-staking review and assessment of their immense contributions to the industry, meaning that all these agencies, brands and individuals have stood head above shoulders in the crowd, and were unanimously voted as the recipients of the inaugural BRANDCOM AWARDS.  BRAND COMMUNICATOR is Nigeria’s most consistent brand and marketing communications magazine. It is also the organiser of Women in Marketing and Communications Conference/Awards (WIMCA), the largest gathering of female marketing and communications professionals in Nigeria and Sub-Saharan Africa. It is also a partner to the two biggest creative advertising shows on the continent, Loeries Africa Middle East and African Cristal Festival. The platform was named PR magazine of the year 2017 and 2018 by the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR), Lagos Chapter.