The Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) Nigeria today made further trail blazing strides in achieving its organisational objective to become the bastion and reference point of excellence in air accident investigation in Africa. L-R: The BEA Director Remi Jouty, Engr Akin Olateru, Commissioner/CEO AIB AIB-N and the Bureau d’Enquêtes et d’Analyses pour la Sécurité de l’Aviation Civile (BEA) France, yesterday in Paris, France signed an Executive Technical Cooperation Programme geared towards fostering mutual cooperation between both countries in respect of air accident investigation and capacity building.  Engr. Akin Olateru, Commissioner/CEO of AIB while signing the Executive Technical Cooperation Programme (ETCP) in Paris yesterday, remarked that the pact is aimed at strengthening the relationship with its counterpart in France; with intentions of tapping into, and benefiting from its wealth of experience, expertise, and technical know-how in aviation accident investigation, for the common good of AIB and other African countries that may be happy to draw assistance from AIB’s resources.  Impressed by the quality of work coming out of AIB Nigeria, relative to aviation accident investigation: and the effectiveness of its service delivery exemplified by its role in undertaking air accident investigation for Republic of Sao Tome and Principe in 2018, and the several others within Nigeria, France through BEA, came up with the ETCP to assist and support AIB through capacity building, information sharing and knowledge transfer.  Olateru stressed that “what we just did today is to help both countries fulfill our obligations as regards the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) convention on accident investigation and walk the talk with the theme ‘No Country Left Behind’”  The BEA Director Remi Jouty, commended the strategic direction and performance of AIB-N particularly in the last two years. In his remarks, Jouty expressed joy at the sealing of the pact: and added that ‘Akin you are doing a great job here establishing a solid structure that will survive your administration’.   The ETCP Agreement borders around the following;  1.       Cooperation in the conduct of aircraft accident and incident investigation, investigation training and sharing of information and expertise, consistent with Annex 13;  2.       Assist each other in the use of air safety investigation, manpower, facilities, recorders, management organization, Aviation Security and Safety;  3.       Exchange of specialist and any other request incidental to fostering the cooperation at the time of the request to the other party as deemed appropriate and as resources may permit;  4.       While ensuring confidentiality, both parties will share information and Air Safety investigator; assign responsibilities;  5.       Exchange visits or regular meetings with the aim of exchange of exchanging experience and technical knowledge  6.       Discussion on any problem that may arise regarding activities in the field of aviation safety in terms of SARPs.  The AIB CEO reiterated that AIB Nigeria is building a world class institution and brand and has thus positioned itself to become a force to reckon with in Africa in the area of accident investigation and capacity building adding that Nigeria had the needed resources to assist other African countries. ‘It is in the light of the foregoing, that the aviation accident investigation counterpart agencies of countries including Saudi Arabia, South Africa and two other African countries have expressed intention to sign MoU with AIB-N for its assistance and cooperation.’