LaLiga’s clubs have posted revenue of Euro 4..47 billion in the 2017/ 2018 season. The figure represents growth of 20.6 per cent over the previous season. With a solid, positive and growing set of results across the board, LaLiga has achieved the best figures in the competition’s history. The latest Financial Report of Spanish professional football, corresponding to the latest complete season of 2017/ 2018. This is the largest positive annual change in recent years and particularly notable given that it occurred following several financial years in which it has been consistently posting double-digit growth rates and in which, furthermore, we are at the midway point of the three-year audiovisual cycle for the national market (and, by extension without coinciding with sudden increases in level or discontinuities). LaLiga’s gross operating profit was Euro 945 million, operating profit was Euro 325 million, and the net profit for the year was Euro 189 million. In short, LaLiga produced a solid, positive and growing set of results across the board, achieving the best figures in the competition’s history. The 2017/18 season was surprising due to two new drivers of LaLiga’s growth breaking onto the scene: commercial revenue and revenue from transfers, which have seized the central role held by broadcasting revenues as drivers of annual growth. Meanwhile, in the case of revenue from player transfers, the annual increase of 104.3 per ent permitted turnover from this item to double in a single year, with an exceptional entry of Euro 1.018 billion, which is symptomatic of the significant capacity for creating sporting value held by the Spanish clubs and SADs. LaLiga earmarks around two per cent of its turnover for corporate social responsibility projects, an amount which is significantly greater than the majority of companies and industries of a similar nature. This allows for the development of the pioneering initiatives mentioned in the report which give us hope and stimulate us, and of which we feel proud. Furthermore, LaLiga’s clubs create a professional football industry which produces an impact on national GDP equivalent to 1.37 per cent and which directly or indirectly employs around 185,000 people. To this we must also add the over €4 billion which it contributes to the state coffers in the form of taxes.