L-R: Permanent Secretary, Anambra state Tertiary Education, Science & Tech, Mrs. Nwaudu, Hon. Commissioner, Ministry of Science and Technology, Anambra State, Prof. Theresa Nkechi Obiekezie, Permanent Secretary (FMC), Mr. Musa Istifanus and Minister of Communications, Dr. Adebayo Shittu during 2nd Phase Sensitization Workshop on National ICT Roadmap for the South East East which has its theme as ‘The role of the Private sector in the implementation of the Nigeria ICT Roadmap” held in Awka, Anambra State. The Honourable Minister of Communications, Dr Adebayo Shittu has pointed out that ICT Roadmap has improved Infrastructure development, E-Government, industry development, Capacity building, local content development and innovation in Nigeria He stated this during 2nd Phase Sensitization Workshop on National ICT Roadmap for the South East East which has its theme as ‘The role of the Private sector in the implementation of the Nigeria ICT Roadmap” held in Awka, Anambra State. The Minister said the intention in developing the Roadmap is to create broad and flexible pathways to ensure that ICT reaches all the nooks and crannies of Nigeria. Dr. Shittu added that the   sensitization programme of the Roadmap 2017-2020 had been deliberately planned by the ministry as part of its post Roadmap engagements in furtherance of its desire to broaden continuous consultations with stakeholders in the sector. In his words, “the Sensitization Programme of the ICT Roadmap will serve as an avenue for private sector stakeholders and participants to cross-fertilize ideas and experiences, share innovations, build enduring partnerships so as to ensure the realization of the vision of government in putting in the ICT sector”. He reiterated Government commitment to ensure that the ICT Sector realizes its full potentials as a viable alternative to diversification of the economy and weaning the sector away from oil. The Minister urged the private sector to embrace the Roadmap and identified priorities areas in the Roadmap and takes appropriate action to enable them to achieve their aspirations “We fully recognize that developing the Roadmap can only bring maximum benefits to stakeholders if it is effectively implemented and we shall continue to provide the required enabling environment, incentives, and support towards ensuring the growth and success of our Industry players.  Shittu stressed In his contribution, the Secretary to the Anambra State Government, Professor Solo Chukwulobelu who represented the Executive Governor of the state described the workshop as timely noting that the state has complied with the use of ICT in government business. In his words, “there is an increase in the state internal revenue from N475 million to N1.7 billion due to the introduction of ICT to the government business in the state”.