L- R : Managing Director ,11Plc , Mr Adetunji Oyebanji ; Chairman 11Plc ,Mr Ramesh Kansagra ; Director ,Alhaji Abdulkadir Aminu ; Company Secretary , Mr Danladi Ochekpe ;Director , Mr Paul Obi  and Director, Richi Kansagra during  the company’s  41st Annual General Meeting in Lagos The Board of Directors and management of 11 plc are please to inform you of our re-entry into the sale and marketing of Aviation Turbine Kerosene (ATK) at Ground Aviation Terminal (GAT), Lagos in the fourth quarter of the year under review. Currently we service some major international airlines with their ATK requirements. Plans for expansion to other major airport locations across the country will follow soon as we seek to penetrate the local ATK market. The Chairman, Ramesh Kensagra stated this during the 41st Annual General Meeting (AGM) held in Lagos. He pointed out that we continue to enjoy uninterrupted PMS supply at our Apapa facility with the expanded tankage as well as other pipeline upgrades to enhance our volumes. The chairman noted that in spite of the uncertainties in the economy and challenging business climate, we continued to maintain impressive volumes and post positive earnings in 2018. “11plc made significant strides during the year as we continued to experience some benefit of the investments we made from the second half of the year. “The turnover for 2018 was N164.6bn and profit after tax rose to N9.3bn. we are very with our stewardship for the period and we are continue to reach the gestation levels in our investments, our strategic planning and renewed commitment to improve on our current results, will engender growth and deliver impressive returns in the future years to come. “In line with our tradition of delivering superior and competitive shareholder returns, I am pleased to recommend for your approval, a dividend of 825kobo subject to applicable statutory deductions. According to Kansagra, from the lubricant perspective, our blending plant upgrade and increased warehouse capacity has ensured our ability to increase our production and hold more of our finished goods and raw materials. With our aggressive sales and marketing strategy, we continue to anticipate greater success in the market place. This will guarantee an increase in the Company’s market share and dominance in the premium lubricant segment.