The Chairman, Presidential Task Force on Apapa gridlock and vice president, Professor Yemi Osinbajo has called on the Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC) and the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) to assist in the implementation of the Presidential Order issued to truck drivers to vacate ports’ access roads within 72 hours.Group Photograph of the Management of Nigerian Shippers’ Council and Presidential Task Force on Apapa Gridlock Osinbajo, who made the call in a meeting held at the NSC’s Headquarters, in Lagos on Thursday, was represented by Mr. Kayode Opeifa.  He maintained that the Task Force was set up by the Presidency to proffer lasting solutions to the perennial traffic in Apapa and its environs within two weeks.  According to him, the new directive mandates the immediate removal of all trucks from ports access roads in which Nigerian Shippers’ Council and Nigerian Ports Authority are key agencies that will assist the realisation and urged NSC and NPA to rally round the task force.  He also expressed readiness to engage the law enforcement Agencies to ensure compliance with the federal Governments’ directives.  His Words:  any truck driver that violate the Presidential’ Order will face the music’’. The Executive Secretary  and Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Shippers’ Council, Mr. Hassan Bello expressed the agency’s readiness to give the Task Force the necessary assistance that will assist the realization of their mandates.  Bello, who was represented by the Director, Legal Services of the Council, Mr.  Samuel Vongtau, expressed optimism that the aspiration of the committee will address anomalies that characterise Apapa ports’ access roads.  Also speaking, the Director, Inland Transport Services (DITS), Mr. Akintunde Makinde, said the Federal government has commenced moves to engage rail for the movement of containers to hinterland which will assist to address the ports’ congestion.  The meeting was attended by Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Nigerian Shippers’ Council (NSC), Nigeria Police Force, Lagos State Government, National Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO), Presidential Enabling Business Council (PEBEC), Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Federal Road Safety Corp (FRSC) and Apapa GRA Residents Association.