A former Head of State, Gen Yakubu Gowon, has urged operators in the banking industry to shun unethical practices and build confidence in the sector. Gowon spoke during the Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria’s extra ordinary investiture event in Lagos on Thursday night. The former head of state said that the Nigerian banking and finance industry had in recent times been plagued with fraud and unethical practices. He said, “No day passes without reports of fraud and other unethical practices in the industry. This constitutes a big threat to the values of trust and professionalism which ought to be the basic principles of the banking industry. “By this investiture programme and its theme, which is ‘Ethical dilemma in financial institutions: The way forward,’ the institute seeks to achieve two mandates at one event, one being the award of fellowship status to the deserving members of the profession and the other being to ensure the furtherance, maintenance and observance of ethical standards and professionalism among practitioners of the banking profession in Nigeria.” Gowon added, “So, I enjoin you to join hands to wage war against unethical practices in the banking and finance industry today for the future to be bright for generations to come.” Gowon also congratulated the awardees at the event. The awardees are the Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, Financial Systems Stability Directorate, Mrs Aishah Ahmad; the Deputy Governor, CBN, Corporate Services Directorate, Mr Edward Adamu, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Zenith Bank Plc, Mr Peter Amangbo; the Chairman, Goldfield Group, Mr Bade Adeshina; the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Development Bank of Nigeria Plc; Mr Tony Okpanachi, and the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, Jaiz Bank Plc, Mr Hassan Usman. The President/Chairman of Council, CIBN, Dr Uche Olowu, said the essence of the extraordinary fellowship was to provide an opportunity for members whose fellowship awards had been approved but could not attend the investiture due to exigency. “As you may probably be aware, fellowship is the apex membership category of the institute bestowed on members who have distinguished themselves within the banking industry in Nigeria and beyond. I must emphasise that this prestigious and coveted award is a call to higher service not only to the institute but also the banking profession, the industry and the economy at large.