The Exchange recognizes the need to improve investor participation, and is leveraging recent Capital Market Initiatives such as the Tiered KYC requirements for capital market investments, as well as promoting the introduction of globally competitive investment products with low entry thresholds, to achieve Financial Inclusion goals Speaking during the welcome and opening address by Mr Jude Chiemeka, the Divisional Head, Trading Business with theme: Investment Masterclass; Making Your Money Work said “On behalf of the management of The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), it gives me utmost pleasure to welcome you to the Maiden Edition of the Retail Investor Workshop tagged “Investment Masterclass; Making your money work”.  “We are indeed pleased to host this event, the first in a series of investment workshops organized by the Nigerian Stock Exchange to provide vital and strategic information targeted at equipping existing and prospective investors with useful skills to effectively manage and grow financial resources at their disposal, as well as present retail Investment opportunities available in the Capital Market.  “Nigeria has a population of over 190 million people and is the second largest economy in Africa. However, the current Financial Inclusion indices of 48 percent leave much to be desired. Financial Inclusion is a priority of stakeholders in the Capital Market, and the Nigerian Stock Exchange makes it a primary concern to contribute towards the achievement of Nigeria’s National Financial Inclusion Strategy of reducing the proportion of adult Nigerians that are ﬁnancially excluded to 20 per cent in the year 2020.  Chiemeka disclosed that currently there are about 3 million retail investors in the Nigerian Capital Market, representing only 3 percent of the total adult population in the country. These initiatives have begun to yield positive results as the market has in recent times witnessed an upturn in retail investor participation. Market data from 2019 shows that retail investors outperformed institutional investors by 8 percent in January, and again by 2 percent in March 2019. Also he said the Retail Coverage Department of the NSE will be rolling out measures directed at encouraging retail investor involvement in the Capital Markets. Over the next few years, various investment workshops will be held across the country, starting with this one here in Lagos. Investors can look forward to regular engagements targeted at promoting Financial Literacy, building investor confidence, as well as the introduction of innovative and technology driven solutions to stimulate investor participation.  “This workshop will bring to the fore a bouquet of products and services tailored to cater to different investment and risk appetites, and I believe that the learning’s garnered from this workshop will create a better understanding of the opportunities in our market. I thank you all for taking time out of your busy schedules to be here to participate in this workshop, and I would also like to thank our sponsor for this event, Vetiva Securities Limited for helping to make today’s workshop a reality. I wish you all an exciting and interactive workshop and I believe that at the end of the event, you would all be more informed and better equipped investors, and I enjoin you to apply the knowledge acquired to your personal investment objectives.” 