Nigeria and South Africa have been urged to pioneer the process of industrialisation to accelerate trade and investment for intra-trade in the continent. The Acting South African High Commissioner to Nigeria Mr. Bobby Moroe, made the call while addressing journalists on the occasion of the country’s 25th Anniversary of the National Freedom Day in Abuja. Mr. Moroe said that both countries were the biggest economies in the continent and could advance the interest of countries in Africa in line with its Agenda 2063. The envoy said the relations between both countries had been strengthened over the years with continuous people-to-people and high-level exchanges between them. “These are the two countries that are poised firmly and strongly through their strong economies and international role that they play in global institutions of governance to make sure that they advance the interest of the continent.” “The two countries have a critical role to play but through our diplomatic relations with Nigeria we have done a lot to make sure that we position ourselves in a manner that the rest of the continent can benefit.” Mr. Moroe added that was important for relations between both countries to be strengthened and areas of cooperation consolidated. “This is in order to create more space to make sure that the level field is played where all key players in the continent can be accommodated through the leadership of Nigeria and South Africa.” The envoy expressed his South Africa’s commitment to the African agenda within the context of regional integration and international cooperation. “Our promise is that we will never betray the support that we have received and the role that we have played in global governance in the past 25 years demonstrates South Africa’s commitment in ensuring that we consolidate the African agenda within the context of regional integration.” BRICS
He also added that South Africa’s membership of BRICS, an association of five major emerging national economies, was to the benefit of the entire continent. BRICS is an acronym for Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. “South Africa’s membership is to the benefit of the entire continent and we have made sure that we work and speak through to power and represent the continent.” Mr. Moroe also said that South Africa was also committed to strengthening of the African agenda as its foremost foreign policy principle.