MTN Nigeria has applied for listing by introduction on the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The above statement was disclosed by the acting, Head of Corporate Communications of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Mrs. Efe Ebelo, on Monday through email sent.  In her word “The Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC, can confirm that we are in receipt of an application from MTN requesting for registration of their existing securities.  She further disclosed that they have applied for listing by introduction which will enable the company to be listed and allow shareholders sell their shares on the floor of the exchange.  And that their application is presently receiving attention.  However, when will the receiving attention application gets final approval of SEC for proper listing was not disclosed. Therefore, we are waiting in hopeful for the SEC approval soon but how soon that is a big question. Nevertheless, the acting Director General of SEC had promised during the capital market committee press briefing last time that whenever they received the said MTN application for listing will be speedily process. Amehnews recalled the telecoms giant recently changed its status from a private company to a public liability company ahead of its listing on the exchange.  Also, as a way to resolve the N330 billion fine placed on MTN by the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) for its inability to disconnect improperly registered SIM cards, listing on the NSE was one of the conditions reached.  The listing on the NSE would create a new telecoms asset class for investors and provide a wider group of Nigerians with a chance to participate in MTN investment opportunity.  According to a report, the Chief Executive Officer of MTN Nigeria, Mr. Fredi Moolman, was quoted to have said that the listing was part of its commitment to localisation in the markets in which it operates.  “Our conversion to a Plc is a major step towards listing by introduction on the Nigerian Stock Exchange in the first half of 2019.  “It is a reaffirmation of our long-term commitment to expanding investment opportunities for Nigerians, in addition to providing everyday services to them.  “We look forward to continuing our engagement with the SEC and NSE to take forward the listing process,” he said.