In a move tailored at increasing capacity to take of growing cargo volumes, West Africa’s foremost ground handler, nahco aviance, has expanded the size of its export warehouse The new facility, comprising three sections; Annex Extension, the Canopy Area and the Ramp Area come on the heels of expanding airfreight volume in the country.  The Annex extension has a dimension of 270 square metre; the Canopy area 352 square metre and the Ramp area 55 square metre. The facility provides adequate space for packaging rising cargo exports by clients who have demonstrated preference for nahco as their handling partner of choice. Published reports showed that export tonnage for Q1, 2019 stood at 3,679,283. This is 950,308 more than the Q1, 2018 figure of 2,728,975 square metre. The trend is widely expected to continue. Nahco handles more than 65 percent of export cargo in the country. The company is the favoured choice of leading airlines like British Airways, Delta, Emirates, Ethiopian and Turkish Airlines. Commenting on the new facility, the Group Managing Director/CEO, Mrs. Olatokunbo Fagbemi said the company will continually upgrade on its facilities and modernize its operations as a matter of policy. “We are constantly improving and innovating and we are happy our clients are delighted about what we are doing. The new nahco aviance is one that plays by the rules and ensures that all its processes meet international standards. We will continue to delight our clients in many more ways and guarantee them great satisfaction.”  According to her, NAHCO is doing all it can to support the Federal Government in its export drive and would support all exporters, both big and small, in order to help achieve this. NAHCO’s ultra – modern warehouse, the first of its kind in the West Africa sub-region, was commissioned in 2012 as part of efforts by the company to offer excellent cargo services to its clients. Only recently, the Company received an award for consistent payment of dividends. The Award, one of several for the Company, was in recognition of the Company’s persistence in rewarding its shareholders who have put their faith in NAHCO. The Award organisers, Third Observers Nigeria Limited, commended NAHCO Plc for 10 years of unbroken dividend payments as a listed company on the Nigeria Stock Exchange pointing out that NAHCO remains the shining light of Nigeria’s privatization programme. According to Mr Abiodun Ayodele, Chairman of the Award Coordinating Committee, Third Observers Limited, none of the privatized companies who are now listed on the NSE has the same consistent performance as NAHCO. He stated, “NAHCO’s story is indeed one that should form the topic of several case studies in performance of a company weaned of the ineptitude of public service to an efficient organization in the private sector. It is truly an amazing story that needs to be retold again and again.”  About The Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc: The Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (nahco aviance) is West Africa’s leading ground handling service provider with presence in all major Nigerian Airports. Founded in December 1979, the Company has since grown into a multi – billion naira company with diversified investments in energy, logistics and development of a free trade zone. This has led to the establishment of Nahco Free Zone (NFZ), Mainland Cargo Options Limited (MCO) and Nahco Energy Power and Infrastructure (EPI). The Company has a vision “to be the leading service provider, continuously innovating and reshaping our chosen markets”. NAHCO’s core values are: Safety, Integrity, Innovation, Reliability, Respect and Empathy. The Company offers a number of services at more than ten airports across Nigeria. These include: Aircraft Handling Cargo Handling Passenger Handling Crew Transportation Passenger Profiling Training Fueling Services NAHCO has received various certifications that confirm the integrity of its service. Some of these include ISAGO certification of which the Company was the first ground handling company in West Africa to receive. This has been recertified till June 2021. The Ra3 EU validation of our major stations will expire in July, 2022. These certifications and re-certifications which the Company is able to achieve and retain after rigorous processes has set it up as the benchmark for local aviation service quality. NAHCO is embarking on a transformation process which berthed with the emergence of a new core investor Godsmart Nigeria Limited, who bought into the company in 2018. The results of that share acquisition had started manifesting in the procurement of new GSEs to further satisfy clients expectations. Infrastructure upgrade and renovation of facilities are also accommodated in the new drive to place NAHCO among global ground handling operators. Investment in human resource which had always been a key element of the organisation’s growth is also being further given attention. The transformation agenda will take NAHCO’s operations to major Africa Airports. The Company which is the first publicly – listed ground handling company on the floor of the Nigeria Stock Exchange has a history of regular dividend payment. Since it listed on the exchange, NAHCO has consistently paid dividends every year without a break. The Company is one of only few listed companies with such a perfect record of dividends payment. NAHCO recorded impressive revenue in excess of 9.8 Billion for the 2018 financial year.