Plans are already in top gear as students of the Department of Statistics, University of Ibadan, areset to mark the first homecoming/reunion event of past graduates of the department between Friday, June 7 and Saturday, June 8, 2019. The two-day program which will audaciously take place at the department complex on the campus is themed, “Homecoming event for Nation Builders and Celebration of Achievement.” The Head of Department, Dr. Angela Chukwu, said the event is aimed at bringing together all alumni of the department, basically to reunite and hopefully work together with the department in supporting research, creativity and to initiate an endowment fund to assist exceptional but less-privileged students of the department. The event kicks off on the 7th June with a breakfast and networking meet and exchange of pleasantries after a long time of leaving the department for greener pastures. Afterwards, two alumni of the department, Prof. D.K. Shangodoyin, a Professor of Statistics, University of Botswana, and President, African Statistical Association; and Dr. Mohammed Tumala, Director of Statistics, Central Bank of Nigeria, will deliver keynote addresses. The event will feature a panel discussion amongst distinguished alumni, which include Professor (Mrs) Joy Nwabueze, Professor Ethelbert Nduka,Mrs. Olubusola Oyebadejo and Mr. Emmanuel John Udoh who will all share expert opinions on the impact of statistics degrees in their various fields. The second day of the program, June 8, will be a social event where the department will be recognizing retired members of staff of the department, and formally recognize and congratulate the newest professors in the department. There will also be an official launch of the department’s Hall of Fame, and an inauguration of the “U.I. Statistics Department Ambassadors, (UISDA),” both of which will be moderated and conducted by the Head of Department. The highlight of this home-coming event is the dinner/fund raiser ceremony at the International Conference Centre University of Ibadan. The event is to celebrate many accomplishments of the department alumni, giving a chance to catch up on sweet memories with old classmates, lecturers and members of staff while enjoying a thrilling event in the ancient city of Ibadan. Intending alumni of the department are urged to confirm their attendances at the event, through this GSM number 0805 544 1106 via sms.