October is gradually coming to an end, but the great news is that the content line-up on GOtv only gets more interesting. Here is a select list of titles to expect this week: Exciting LIVE football matches this weekend from the Premier League, LaLiga, Serie A and the FIFA U-17 World Cup. On Saturday, 26 October, Barcelona vs Real Madrid on Select 4 (channel 34) at 12:00pm, Leccee vs Juventus at 2:00pm and Inter Milan vs Parma at 5:00pm both showing on Select 5 (channel 36). On the Premier League table, it’s West Ham vs Sheffield United at 3pm on Select 2 (channel 32). Cheer the Golden Eaglets to victory as they face Hungary at 9:00pm on Select 2 (GOtv channel 32) and a simultaneous broadcast of Brazil vs Canada at 9:00pm Select 3 (GOtv channel 33). On Sunday, 27 October, Norwich vs Manchester United at 5:30pm on Select 2 (GOtv channel 32). For more information on the unmatched football on GOtv and the upcoming fixtures, visit www.supersport.com. It’s still Pepper Dem season! Re-live some of the best moments on the recently concluded BBNaija Pepper Dem show. It airs on Africa Magic Family (Channel 2) for one hour weekdays from 10:00pm to 11:00pm and two hours on Saturdays from 10:00pm to 12:00am.  The Africa Magic Nollywood Star Pop Up channel is still on. The biggest Nollywood titles, 24 hours and seven days a week with NO repeats on GOtv channel 29. If you are a fan of Tyler Perry’s productions, then you don’t want to miss Sistas a new dramedy that explores the complicated & hilarious love lives of four modern black women. Also, from the stables of Tyler Perry is The Oval that tells the story of an interracial family sworn to power as the first family of the United States of America, behind closed doors they will show a side that would both shock and entertain you. Both shows premiere on the 24th October at 8:30pm and 9:30pm respectively on BET (channel 21) available on GOtv Max.  Get your telenovela fix with Kindred Hearts on Zee World (channel 25).  Nisha continues to manipulate Binni against the family until Akash makes her a better person. Also, Arjun’s first wife Rano comes calling! How much more trouble will the couple face? Follow the drama every weekday at 6:00pm. The kids are sure not left out this week. Follow 8-year-old Angelina as she embarks on the next stage in her life at a new school where she learns new forms of music and dance. The series sees Angelina moving to a new house in Chipping Cheddar, attending Camembert Academy, making friend with a cast of colourful characters, including her new teacher, Ms. Mimi. Follow the tales of Angelina on Angelina Ballerina weekdays at 5:45pm on JimJam (channel 61). It’s now less than 10 days to the end of the GOtv Step Up Offer. Do not miss out on this opportunity to enjoy the premium content on GOtv MAX at a reduced fee of N2,600! Visit www.gotvafrica.com or download the MyGOtv app from your app store to get connected. For more scheduled programming for October, visit www.gotvafrica.com You can also follow GOtv on Twitter  Instagram and Facebook 