All is set for staff of Ecobank Nigeria to “Walk Against Cancer” this Saturday October 5th, being part of activities to mark the Ecobank Day 2019. Ecobank Day is a special day set aside every year by Ecobank Group, for the management and staff of the bank to embark on  Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities that impacts its immediate environment and people. The initiative encapsulates Ecobank desire to give back to the local communities where it does business through volunteering, donating or fundraising. The theme for this year’s edition is “Preventing Non Communicable Diseases” with special focus on “Cancer Awareness”. Ecobank day holds simultaneously in 36 countries in Africa where the bank operates. In his message, the Chief Risk Officer, Ecobank Nigeria, Biyi Olagbami, who is also the CSR lead, said the choice of this year’s theme is to further raise awareness on non-communicable diseases, particularly the dreaded cancer which is currently ravaging millions of people globally as early detection would help save many lives. He noted that staff of the bank and other interested members of the public will this Saturday embark on 5km cancer awareness walk in three key cities – Lagos, Abuja and Port Harcourt.  According to Mr Olagbami , “there would be special fund raising that will be subsequently donated to a local cancer treatment centre. Also there will be health talk by cancer specialists and speeches and testimonies from cancer survivors amongst other activities lined up for the day.  Further, he noted that Ecobank Day in Nigeria had supported a variety of causes ranging from malaria prevention, improvement of education standard in some of the most deprived areas and promotion of safe water for healthy life, among others.  Ecobank Nigeria has made significant strides in its CSR activities in recent times. Lately the bank embarked on the removal of non- biodegradable elements particularly plastic bottles from the streets of Lagos. The initiative, which is still on-going, has generated commendations, recognitions and goodwill from government officials, corporate organizations and well-meaning individuals.  Ecobank Nigeria had in May, informed Lagos residents to exchange plastic bottles for cash at designated locations across the state. The collectors are incentivized with N30 for every kilogram plastic bottle picked. A  set  target to remove 4 million was agreed. So far, the bank has successfully removed over 2 million plastic bottles in exchange for cash. Also a week tagged ‘Ecobank sustainability week was set aside during which symposia were organized for secondary schools’ students to create awareness on tackling plastic wastes and other environmental issues.