In ensuring industry ethical standard and best practices, the Acting Director of Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Alhaji Shakur Ahmad Rufai has warned oil and gas laboratory operators to avoid compromising data analysis results and upheld objectivity and sincerity of purpose. Shakur who gave the warning at the 3rd Oil and Gas Industry Laboratory Stakeholders Workshop held in Lagos on Wednesday to chat a new direction for laboratory managers and operators towards  embracing industry best practices in laboratory data analysis in the oil and gas industry .  The 2-day workshop is themed “Enhancing laboratory best practices and capacity Building towards promoting sustainable development in the Nigerian oil and gas industry’’.   Shakur  represented by  Dr Musa Zagi, Deputy Director, Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) Division of DPR said laboratory practice in the Nigerian oil and gas Industry should not only be viewed as a business or money-making venture.   He said that laboratory practices should be seen as a critical and sensitive component which inputs are critical for decision-making across the oil and gas value chain.   According to him, `It is indeed a great pleasure and honour as I stand here in your midst today to kick-off this very important stakeholders’ workshop represented by CEOs of laboratories, members of the academia, representatives of oil and gas companies,   “I wish to express my profound appreciation to all our esteemed guests and stakeholders, here present for making out time to come from far and near, in spite of your tight and busy schedules, to attend this workshop.   “ This, to me, signifies the seriousness and importance that you all attach to this engagement which is geared towards continuous improvement of laboratory practice in the Nigerian oil and gas industry.   “ In the same vein, I would like to thank the head of HSE and his dedicated team for successfully putting this year’s stakeholders’ workshop together,’’ he said.   The DPR boss said the question here is how equipped and efficient are our laboratories for conducting these scientific observations and analyses?   He said: It is my fervent hope and firm belief, that the discussions will ignite a strong determination and resolve among all  oil and gas laboratory stakeholders to begin to chart a definitive and sustainable path towards uncompromised and consistent quality of service and integrity of results.   Shakur said that furthermore, the quality and integrity of the data or results churned out from laboratories in our sector of the economy is a critical ingredient in decision making (for both regulators and operators) without which there can be no real value addition and sustainability.  The Captioned Photo: The Acting Director of Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR), Alhaji Shakur Ahmad Rufai