Justice Folashade Giwa-Ogunbanjo gave the order on Tuesday in a ruling on an ex-parte motion for orders of interim forfeiture filed by the EFCC and argued by the agency’s lawyer, Mohammed Abubakar. The affected properties were listed in a schedule attached to the motion, included houses that Maina allegedly acquired in his name and those of his late father, mother, wife and son. They are located in Abuja, Kano, Kaduna, Borno and Sokoto states. In the ruling, Justice Giwa-Ogunbanjo also ordered the EFCC to publish the order in The Nation newspapers to enable interested parties show cause why the properties should not be permanently forfeited to the Federal Government. Specifically, the reliefs granted by the court are: “An interim order of forfeiture to the Federal Government of Nigeria of the assets and properties listed in the schedule to this motion. “An order of this honourable court, directing the publication of the interim order of forfeiture in The Nation newspapers, inviting any person(s) or body(ies), who may have interest in the assets and properties listed in the schedule to show cause, within 14 days of such publication, why a final order of forfeiture to the Federal Government of Nigeria of the said assets and properties should not be made.” The judge ordered the anti-graft agency to publish the interim forfeiture order within 14 days and return to court on November 19 to report compliance. It was also learnt on Tuesday that Maina and his son may be arraigned tomorrow before Justice Okon Abang (also of the Federal High Court, Abuja). The EFCC plans to effect service of the charge, already filed before the court, on Maina and his son before the close of work on Tuesday to pave the way for their arraignment. The property affected by the interim forfeiture order are:  Plot MFl9 Cadastral Zone, covered by MFCT/12/AMAC/KR/MEI9 AGIS FCT48215 (MISC6OI4), located in Karu, Abuja (allegedly acquired in his mother’s name); Plot 18 Road F Malali North East Residential Layout, in Kaduna (said to have been acquired in 2017, using his late father’s name);  Block 23 Flat 2 located at Life Camp (2 bedrooms semi-detached) in Abuja (in wife’s name); Plot No 965, Gwarimpa 1 District, Cadastral Zone: C02 covered by Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) No: lafew-fe28z-63a5r-c36eu-10 in Abuja, (in son’s name) and Flat 42C, SMC Quarters, Unguwan Dosa, Kaduna, Kaduna State (allegedly acquired in his pseudo name). Also affected are: a duplex located at No. 16 A Katuru Road, Kaduna, Kaduna State (in son’s name); 52B, SMC Quarters, Unguwan Dosa, Lot 016 comprising 3-bedroom semi-detached bungalow, in Kaduna, Kaduna State (in wife’s name); Property at Tola Street, Badarawa. Seized in Kaduna are 3-bedroom and an undeveloped land in Kaduna, Kaduna State (original documents said to have been found in his possession);  Plot Y12, Kano Street, Kawo New Extention, Kaduna, Kaduna State (in son’s name); A duplex at No. 21, 52 Crescent, Kubwa Phase IV Estate, Abuja (in his own name) and House 8, 211 road, A Close, FHA/EST/264/TA/O32, 3-bedroom bungalow in Abuja (in the name of a company where his relations are directors). Others are: a farm at Dorawa, Karshi Development Area, Karu Local Government, Nasarawa State (in son’s name); another Farm at Dorawa, Karshi Development Area, Karu Local Government, Nasarawa State (acquired in son’s name);  Plot 3A, Sambo Road, Unguwan Rimi, covered by C of O No: KD15452 comprising uncompleted buildings located in Kaduna, Kaduna State (in son’s name);  Property located at 16B/BG Gombe Road, Biu, covered by C of O No: 929/88 in Biu LGA, Borno State (in the name of Cruise City Ltd, where he is allegedly a director); Plot MF-27A, New Pasali Layout, Kuje, Kuje Area Council, Abuja (in his own name) and  Plot 1B Ajayi Road, Unguwgn Rimi, covered by C of O, marked: NC24059 in Kaduna, Kaduna State (original document said to have been found in his possession). Others are: Property at No: 62 A/C Maternity Ward, Damaturu Road, Biu, in Biu Local Government, Borno State (original documents found in his possession); Plot of C of O Bo/426 beacon B5086, 135087, B5105, B5104, B5099 Cadastral Zone, B05 Utako, in Abuja (allegedly acquired in wife’s name);  Plot 37, Kinshasa Road, Maiduguri, Borno State;  No 16 Dabai Road, off Mangoro Road, Sokoto, Sokoto State; No. 13 Korau Road, Nassarawa District, Kano, Kano State and  Plot 965 Cadastral Zone C02, Gwarimpa, Abuja.