 The Central Securities Clearing System Plc (CSCS) has received special recognition for its contribution to the financial services industry, by winning the Continental Leader in Post-trade and Custody Services award, at the 7th Annual Business Day Banks’ and Other Financial institutions (BAFI) awards, which held at the Lagos Continental Hotel on Saturday 19th October 2019. BAFI is the most prestigious recognition event for outstanding performance in Nigeria’s financial services industry. Winners of the Judges ‘Award category have been adjudged to have demonstrated that they have brought revolutionary benefits to the financial services industry in Nigeria.  Nominations for the BAFI Awards go through a rigorous review processes before finalists are selected. To be recognised as the Continental Leader in Post-Trade and Custody Services in Nigeria by the review committee is indeed a great honour for CSCS.  The MD/CEO, CSCS Plc Mr. Haruna Jalo-Waziri, appreciates and thanks the Review Committee of the BAFI Awards for this special recognition: “This award reinforces the value we bring to the financial services industry and inspires CSCS to continue to live up to the expectation of the market”.  Central Securities Clearing System Plc (CSCS) is Nigeria’s Central Securities Depository (CSD) licensed to carry on the depository, clearing and settlement of transactions on several exchanges in the Nigerian Capital Market.  CSCS provides an effective single access point for all post-trade services in the Nigerian financial market, covering all forms of capital and money market securities including equities, treasuries, bonds, ETFs, unit trust funds and cash. With an “A+” CSD rating from Thomas Murray, CSCS ranks amongst the best rated financial services firms in Nigeria and one of the best rated FMI in Africa.  About CSCS  The Central Securities Clearing System (CSCS) is a Public Limited Company incorporated on 29 July 1992 under the Companies and Allied Matters Act 1990 and commenced operations on 14 April 1997. CSCS acts as a depository for equities, corporate bonds, federal government savings bonds, ETFs, REITs and mutual funds. CSCS is regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and is registered by the Corporate Affairs Commission. The activities of CSCS are governed by the Investment and Securities Act 2007, the Companies and Allied Matters Act 2004, and by the SEC Rules. 