The Alumni Association of the University of Lagos (UNILAG) has honoured eminent Nigerians in commemoration of its 50th anniversary. The honourees include Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo, All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Osun State Governor Adegboyega Oyetola. The alumni association, led by its President, Dr John Momoh, honoured the eminent Nigerians yesterday at its Golden Jubilee awards and gala night at Intercontinental Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. Asiwaju Tinubu was honoured with a special recognition award for keeping Nigeria on the path towards good governance, respect for human rights and prosperity for all. The former Lagos State governor, who was represented by ex-Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Dele Alake, urged individuals and other stakeholders to work together and take UNILAG to enviable heights. “Government alone cannot fund excellent universities. The initiative is for private individuals, alumni and everyone to work together to make sure UNILAG ranks among the best in the world,” he said. The Vice Chancellor, Professor Toyin Ogundipe, recalled how the institution excelled in national and global competitions. He noted that students of the institution could compete nationally and globally. “We have students who can hold their own anywhere. Our students won the National Mathematics Competition for university students. Also, two of our postgraduate students won design competition. In the area of innovation, our students are also doing well,” Ogundipe said. The vice chancellor sought support for indigent students, saying the Bank of Industry (BoI) had given the school a grant of N250 million to support student-entrepreneurs after their graduation. Ekiti State Governor Dr Kayode Fayemi said inadequate funding must be tackled in order to enhance the growth of the Education sector. He said: “We must find a radical solution to the issue of funding education in Nigeria. We need to do more so that our universities will not be glorified secondary schools. Our budget is small ($25 million) compared to other countries, like Brazil, whose budget for 2018 was $58 million. “We need to revisit our development activities in the universities and other support systems.” Dr Momoh said the association had come a long way and would continue in its drive to develop the university. The Pro-Chancellor, Dr Wale Babalakin, decried the absence of Nigerian universities in the top 100 global ranking. “Nigerian universities are at a crossroads. There is no single university of ours listed in the top 100 in the world. It is very sad. The challenge now for the alumni is to bring back the glory days of our Education sector,” he said. Prof. Osinbajo urged Nigerians to dedicate themselves to the advancement of the nation and tertiary institutions. Other honourees include business moguls Alhaji Aliko Dangote, Mr Femi Otedola and Dr Mike Adenuga. They also include Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of the Nigerian Diaspora Commission, Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa; frontline banker, Mr Jim Ovia; Sir Olu Okeowo; Advertising guru, Mr Biodun Shobanjo; Governors Babajide Sanwo-Olu (Lagos State), Adegboyega Oyetola (Osun) and Seyi Makinde (Oyo) as well as former General Secretary of the Commonwealth, Chief Emeka Anyaoku.