Ezem Collins, a teacher at the Royal Family Academy,Abujahas emerged the 2019 Maltina Teacher of the Year.Collins, a Civic Education and Christian Religious Studies teacher was declared winner of the prestigious honour at the grand finale heldon Friday, October 18, 2019 at Eko Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos.For emerging the winner of the 5th edition of the Maltina Teacher of the Year, Collinswill be awarded a total cash prize of N6.5 million(N1.5million immediately andN1million annually for the next five years) by the Nigerian Breweries – Felix OhiwereiTrust Fund. He would also get an all-expense paid capacity development training abroad while a furnished block of sixclassrooms, a library and sanitary facilitiesworthabout N20 million will be builtfor his school in his honour by the Fund. Megbowon Soji, a teacher from Jakande Estate Comprehensive Senior College, Lagos State emerged the first runner-up winning a total of N1.5 Million while Atondo Fidelis, a teacher from Government Secondary School, Ingawa, Katsina emerged as second runner-up with a prize of N1, 250.000.00. Other 20 teachers who emerged as state champions were also rewarded with a sum of N500, 000.00 each. Speaking at the event, the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo who was represented by the Minister of State, Education, Honourable Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba applauded Nigerian Breweries Plc for being at the forefront of improving the education sector by continually investing not only in educational infrastructure but also motivating and inspiring teachers. Osinbajo noted that the investment in a unique initiative such asthe Maltina Teacher of the Year will obviously contribute to the improvement of education in Nigeria by recognizing and rewarding outstanding teachers in Nigeria. “I am honoured to join this one-of-a-kind initiative to celebrate the Nigerian teacher. Whatever we have become is a direct outcome of what you, our teachers, have passed on to us,” he said While congratulating the overall winner and all the state champions whom he described as a beacon of light, Osinbajo implored them to continue to be an example in their different states and impact the generation of the young ones entrusted into their care, whom the country needs to hold its own in the comity of nations. Delivering his remarks, the Lagos State Governor, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu represented by the Commissioner for Education, Mrs. Folasade Adefisayo lauded the efforts of Nigerian Breweries Plc for creating a more befitting, learning and teaching environment for public schools in the country through some of its interventions. Sanwo-Olu urged other corporate organizations to take a cue from thisgesture, as this would go a long way to improve the education sector in Lagosand the entire country. In his welcome address, the Managing Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Mr. Jordi Borrut Bel affirmed that the initiative was designed to recognize, celebrate and motivate teachers in Nigeria for their invaluable contributions towards the overall development of our lives as individuals andthe society as a whole. “There is no doubt that teachers play a vital role in sustainable national development by training, coaching and modeling students which is critical to determining the quality of education. However, everyone acknowledges that these teachers seldom get the recognition they deserve. “We at Nigerian Breweries Plc, commend you our teachers for the countless lives you have touched and molded in your own unique ways. We recognize the work you are doing and on behalf of Maltina and all of us at Nigerian Breweries Plc, I salute you for your exceptional efforts. I congratulate all the winners today and charge those who do not win the top prize to hold their heads high for being a shining light for their profession,” he said. In herremarks, the Corporate Affairs Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Mrs. Sade Morgan stressed that this year’s edition recorded an unprecedented interest from teachers across the country as the record of participation for the initiative surpassed previous editions, an indication that the initiative has become widely accepted amongst teachers. While praising the members of the jury for exhibiting a high level of professionalism and transparency throughout the evaluation process, Morgan commended all stakeholder groups including the Federal Ministry of Education, Nigeria Union of Teachers, Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria and the All Nigeria Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools, for their support in ensuring the 5th edition was a huge success. Speaking shortly after he was declared the winner, Collins expressed profound appreciation to Nigerian Breweries Plc, Maltina, his wife as well as the school for the support and honour.L-R: Managing Director/Chief Executive, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Mr. Jordi Borrut Bel; Her Excellency, Wife of the Governor of Lagos State, Dr. (Mrs.) Ibijoke Sanwo-Olu; Winner of the 2019 Maltina Teacher of the Year, Mr. Ezem
Collins; Minister of State for Education, Hon. Chukwuemeka Nwajiuba and Corporate Affairs Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Mrs. Sade Morgan during the prize presentation to the winner at the Grand Finale of the 2019 Maltina
Teacher of the Year held in Lagos recently.Since inception, the Maltina Teacher of the Year initiative has produced five grand winners, Rose Nkemdilim Obi, Anambra (2015), ImohEssien, Akwa Ibom (2016), Felix Ariguzo, Delta State (2017), Olasunkanmi Opeifa, FCT (2018) and now, Ezem Collins(2019).  ABOUT MALTINA TEACHER OF THE YEAR In 2015, Nigerian Breweries-Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund introduced the Maltina Teacher of the Year, a national competition, to identify, honor and reward outstanding teachers in Nigeria. Maltina Teacher of the Year is supported by the Federal Ministry of Education other stakeholders in education including the Nigeria Union of Teachers(NUT), All Nigeria Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPPS) and Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN).  ABOUT NIGERIAN BREWERIES-FELIX OHIWEREI EDUCATION TRUST FUND The Nigerian Breweries-Felix Ohiwerei Education Trust Fund was set up in 1994 with a startup capital of 100 million Naira to enable sustained quality education through structured intervention in the sector. The Fund has footprints across the six geographical zones in Nigeria at primary, secondary and tertiary levels of education. Through the Fund, NB Plc has constructed and furnished over 400 classrooms, sanitary facilities and libraries in 74 communities across the country. The Fund has also granted scholarships to deserving students in tertiary institutions.  ABOUT NIGERIAN BREWERIES PLC Nigerian Breweries Plc, incorporated in 1946 is the pioneer and largest brewing company in Nigeria. With 23 malt and beer brands within its portfolio, it serves the Nigerian market and exports to other parts of West Africa. Nigerian Breweries Plc which is driven by the corporate philosophy of “Winning with Nigeria”, has continued to take an increasingly active part in supporting education, amongst our other CSR focus areas. 