MultiChoice Nigeria is bringing back some of the best moments from the recently concluded Big Brother Naija season 4, Pepper Dem edition in daily doses for the next one month. The BBNaija Pepper Dem Highlights show premieres on Monday, 14 October and will run till Friday, 8th November 2019 on Africa Magic Family (DStv Channel 154 and GOtv Channel 2) every weekday and Saturdays from 10 pm.  BBNaija fans in Nigeria and across Africa will relive the emotional rollercoaster and captivating moments on the 99 days long reality show including Tuoyo’s scintillating dance moves during the Saturday night parties to Omashola’s ‘Warrriiiiii’ outbursts and of course, Mercy’s journey to becoming the first female BBNaija winner.  Speaking on the BBNaija Pepper Dem highlights show, Channels Director, Africa Magic, Wangi Mba-Uzoukwu said:  “Big Brother Naija Pepper Dem was a hugely successful season and we’re glad the fans enjoyed all 99 days of it. We are excited to announce that the show has been packaged into a one-hour weekday and two-hour weekend show for fans to re-experience the best – and perhaps some never seen moments of the show”.  According to the organizers, the BBNaija season 4 Pepper Dem edition has been the most successful BBNaija reality show ever! At the grand finale, the show’s host Ebuka Obi-Uchendu announced that over 240 million votes were recorded at the end of the season, surpassing the record set by the previous season.  The special BBNaija Pepper Dem Highlights show premieres on Monday, 14 October and will run till Friday, 8th November 2019 on Africa Magic Family (DStv channel 154 & GOtv channel 2) for one hour, every weekday from 10:00 pm to 11:00 pm and two hours on Saturdays from 10:00 pm to 12:00 am. Available to customers on all DStv packages, GOtv Max, Plus and Value. Do not miss out on this! Visit www.dstv.com and www.gotvafrica.com to subscribe or reconnect and watch your favourite housemates once more. You can also stream the show live and on the go with the DStv Now mobile app.