The Maltina Teacher of the Year is a keenly contested national competition among secondary school teachers in Nigeria. The Nigerian Breweries plc, Corporate Affairs Director, Ms Sade Morgan, while addressing the stakeholders and participants at the event, disclosed that at the end of the call for entries, which lasted from month May through to July, we received a total of 1310 entries from all 36 states and Abuja. That number is a quantum leap of 104 percent increase over the 641entries we received in the last edition, she added.   “I now invite you to take a walk with us on from the beginning  of the story as we see the impact that the Maltina Teacher of the Year has had on the winners, on their schools and the ultimately on their students.  The 2019 Maltina Teacher of the Year grand finale was held at Eko Hotels on Friday October 19, 2019 in Lagos.  “The process of identifying the 2019 Maltina Teacher of the Year has taken several months and broken our record of participation. For the first time, since we inaugurated the initiative, we recorded an unprecedented interest by teachers across the country to compete for the top prize. At the end of the call for entries, which lasted from month May through to July, we received a total of 1310 entries from all 36 states and Abuja. That number is a quantum leap of 104 percent increase over the 641entries we received in the last edition. Our strategy of creating more entry platforms by supplementing physical channels with digital and electronic channels, helped with the success we recorded in this regard.  This year, according to her, we also further engaged key education stakeholders such as the Federal Ministry of Education, Teachers Registration Council of Nigeria (TRCN), the all Nigeria Confederation of Principals of Secondary Schools (ANCOPSS) and the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT). The partnership with the NUT and the TRCN also allowed us access to their database for direct contact with teachers.  She disclosed that the 1310 entries we received for this year’s edition was subjected to an intensive selection and judging process by our independent and external panel of judges to ensure transparency, credibility and objectivity. The multi-step evaluation of entries produced an impressive list of 23 State Champions, who are our first set of winners. From these State Champions, the top ten candidates underwent further assessment by the panel of judges to select the 2019 Maltina Teacher of the Year.  The Corporate Affairs Director noted that today, like in the last editions, the State Champions will receive N500, 000.00 each. The second runner-up will get an additional N750,000.00 while the first runner-up will take home one million Naira in addition to the N500, 000.00 they will receive as State Champions. The Maltina Teacher of the Year will get N1million cash today and every year for the next five years plus a capacity development training abroad while the school he/she represents will get a furnished six-class room block worth N20million as part of the winning prizes.  “Today’s grand finale gives us an opportunity to share happiness with our teachers. I hope that this initiative reminds everyone to support and encourage our teachers always.  Ms Morgan thank the panel of judges chaired by Professor Pat Utomi for their transparency, professionalism and tenacity with which they undertook their assignment adding that the strict evaluation process applied by the panel of judges exemplifies core objectives of the Maltina Teacher of the Year campaign: Upholding excellent standards for our teachers, which will ultimately result in better student performance.  “To all the teachers across Nigeria; let me say that you are all. We recognize and applaud your invaluable contributions to our lives and our country and for this we say thank you