Autofast, the new quality and affordable service launched by Total Nigeria Plc, in partnership with CFAO Nigeria Plc, is offering 35 vehicular checks and routine maintenance within one hour. Speaking at the launch of the service in Abuja, Mr. Thomas Pelletier, the Managing Director/Country Delegate CFAO Nigeria Plc, disclosed that  the AutoFast service is committed to providing customers with quality spare parts and lubricants. “For a standard Toyota Corolla, the service cost is just N8,500, which includes not only a replacement of the oil in the filters, but also 35 checks on the vehicles to be sure the vehicle that leaves this place is considered to be safe.” He promised that even when motorists come in without an appointment for vehicle maintenance, “in one hour, we are through with your service”. The last promise is proximity. Because of the large Total network, we will get the service closer to the customers,” Pelletier disclosed. The launch of the product held at the Total Service Station, Zone 6, Wuse, Abuja. Total Nigeria Plc Managing Director Mr. Imrane Barry noted: “The why behind this is change. The customers are becoming more and more sophisticated. The other is Care. This is to say to Nigeria customers that Total/CFAO cares about you. But care is not enough; let’s talk about Trust. Trust is partnership, dealing with stakeholders in the industry and ensuring Nigeria customers are having the best available service in the country: that is what we are aiming for.” French Ambassador to Nigeria Mr. Jerome Pasquier, who launched the service station, said: “I am happy on this partnership between Total and CFAO. I wish you congratulations and a very good success and I am very impressed by the enthusiasm of the service station team.” Total Nigeria’s Network Development Manager Mr. Marc Renauld stated: “This is the first AutoFast in Nigeria and this great story started a couple of months ago. It is a wonderful concept in Nigeria.” The Managing Director, Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) Retail, Sir Billy Okoye, who toured the Total service station, was intrigued by its Café Bonjour and supermarket. Among other senior management at the event were the Executive General Manager, Total Country Services, Mrs. Olubunmi Popoola-Mordi; Country Security Coordinator, Mr. David Lubo; General Manager Sales & Marketing, Mr. Charles Atiomo; Deputy General Manager, Government Relations, Mrs. Sonye Allanah; Territorial Sales Manager, Mr. Umar Abdullahi; Technical Coordinator, Mr. Marty Gratien and Retail Marketing Manager, Ms. Henrietta Isokpan.