AT the just-concluded 13th Headies Award held at the weekend, many A-list artistes won big. African giant Burnaboy proved himself worthy of the title as he bagged three awards, including the biggest award of the night, Artist of the Year. He beat Wizkid, Davido, Tiwa Savage and Falz to win in the category. Burna Boy also won the Best Collaboration with Killing Dem and Song of the Year with Ye. His song, Dangote, clinched the Best Music Video Award which was credited to Clarence Peter. Falz, who won three awards, including Best Rap Album for Moral Instruction, thanked the organisers for recognising the importance of music as an instrument of protest. The son of renowned lawyer and human rights activist Femi Falana promised to continue to dish out songs to raise social consciousness in the country. Talented female singer Teni The Entertainer led with four awards, including Best Recording of the Year, while Mayorkun won two awards. Nineteen-year-old Divine Ikubor, popularly known as Rema, won the Next Rated Artiste of the Year Award. Rema joined the alumni of superstar winners like Wande Coal, Reekado Banks and Teni. He also gave a performance of his chart-topping breakout song, Dumebi, just before he won the highly-coveted gong. Most notably, the special recognition award went to Paul Okoye, the concert promoter and CEO, One Africa Music Fest, for his contribution to the Nigerian music industry. Shifi Omoefe and Zeal Onyechene, members of the singing group Styl-Plus, performed four of their smash singles: Run away, Call my name, Imagine That and Olufunmi. There were also live performances by Zaki Adzay, Sunny Neji, Duncan Mighty, Victor AD, and Wurld. TV Personality, Ebuka Obi-Uchendu and Toke Makinwa, presented compered the event. Ebuka bemoaned the deaths of Nigerians via tankers. The event unfolded last week in Onitsha; He said, “Until we start holding the government responsible, Nigerians will continue to die.” Tributes were paid posthumously to industry icons like Tosin Bucknor, Ras Kimono and Mad Melons of Danfo Drivers. To end the largely underwhelming award ceremony, Teni The Entertainer  performed a medley of her hit songs. The highlight of her performance was when she invited Mike Edwards, first runner-up of Big Brother Naija, to join her for the rendition of the incredible popular song Case. Other winners were Barry Jhay (Rookie of the Year), Wurld (Best Vocal Performance – Male for Wishes and Butterflies) Chinko Ekun (Best Street-Hop Artiste – Able God), Johnny Drille (Best Alternative Song – Finding Efe), AQ- Crown (Lyricist on The Roll), Yemi Alade (Best Performer), Seyi Shay ft Runtown (Best R&B Single – Gimme Love), Killertunes (Producer of The Year – Fake Love by Duncan Mighty ft Wizkid).