 In a bid to engage and inspire leaders both within and outside the organisation, MTN Nigeria hosted industry chieftains to the inaugural edition of the MTN Fireside Chat to expound on thought leadership to a group of high-performing, high-potential employees. The conference-style event themed, ‘Making Excellence Ordinary’ held over the weekend at the Four Points by Sheraton, Victoria Island, Lagos.  The speakers include the Chief Executive Officer, Standard Bank Group, Sola David-Borha, Africa Region and Brand Consultant, Leke Alder, while celebrity fashion designer, Mai Atafo moderated the event. The event was full of engaging and inspiring conversations from both the speakers and the participants. There were also fun activities such as games and networking and other moments of profound insights during the dialogue session. Mrs. Borha highlighted the role supportive partners, families and a stable support system, play in developing a purposeful career. She encouraged participants to be supportive partners as well.  Leke Alder, while sharing highlights from his career emphasized the need to be humble and manage one’s ego. He urged participants to carry out their functions to the best of their ability, emphasizing that it is critical to success. He ended his discourse by saying “Excellence is it’s own reward’’. While opening the event, Chief Human Resources Officer, MTN Nigeria, Esther Akinnukawe, said the MTN Fireside Chat was one of many initiatives MTN Nigeria has developed to support and equip employees across the organisation to not only excel in their roles but to be high-flyers in life. She appreciated the HR team for bringing the event to life while affirming that MTN Nigeria would host more of such events. Esther urged participants to reflect on what was learnt and seek to collaborate more across the organisation, stating, “We are Good Together”. MTN Nigeria was recently awarded the Investors In People (IiP) Platinum certification, the highest standard attainable to any organisation for their people management practises. The award is a further indication of MTN Nigeria’s unwavering dedication to developing its employees and commitment to best-in-class practices across the organisation.