Skyway Aviation Handling Company PLC (SAHCO) has acquired a fleet of brand new Ground Handling Equipment, expanded its cargo warehouse to boost its operations to accommodate its growing activitiesand also been presented an award as the Most Impactful  Ground Handling Company of the Year.L-R- Mrs. Toyin Oladipo, Senior Marketing Manager, Skyway Aviation Handling Company PLC (SAHCO); Mr. Basil Agboarumi, Managing Director/CEO, SAHCO; Captain Dele Ore, an Aviation Authority;  Mr. Philip Weetherall, Managing Director, NAHCO Free Trade Zone and Mr. Kinsley Nwokoma, President, Chairman of AFARN  during the 29th Association of Foreign Airlines and Representatives in Nigeria (AFARN)Summit/Awards in Lagos, Nigeria. SAHCO’s new fleet of equipment includes Baggage Carts, Conveyor Belts,Passenger Steps andStatic Palletswhich are of high quality with exceptional features.The Passenger Steps which are manufactured in Italy by Bombelliare equipped with peculiar safety features that prevents unwarranted interference,some of which include censors that automatically slows it down to snail speed to avoid any form of collision with aircraft. The Ground Support Equipment which can both be remotely and manually operated thereby making usage very flexible,can be used for both wide and narrow body aircrafts seamlessly. Just like the Passenger steps, the Conveyor belts arethe latest model in the aviation market, they are equipped withAircraft Proximity Censor which gives a signal when approaching the aircraft to avoid collisionand they can go as high as 6ft unlike the old model which could only do about 3 feet. Also, the static pallet dollies are made of synthetic aluminum which prevents rusts, very rugged and easy to lift from all angles without folding or damaging the flat bed. Just like the pallets, the newly acquired baggage carts model has special features which includes;higher ground clearance that enhances accessibility, a canopy,and is kitted with synthetic aluminum that prevents rust. SAHCO’s constant investments in ultra-modern equipment is one of the reasons the organization stands out among its competitors.Recently, SAHCO invested in brand new baggage tow tractors to boost its operations across the country, this immense investment in modern technology and state-of-the-art equipment which has resulted in excellent performance has boosted clients’ confidence and even brought about interest in intending clients.  Furthermore, SAHCO has expanded its export warehouse to accommodate the growing export business which is fitted with brand new modern cargo scanners to makeexport cargo processing safe, effective and speedy. Meanwhile,SAHCO PLC has bagged ‘The Most Impactful Aviation Ground Handling Company of the year’award,by the Association of Foreign Airlines and Representatives in Nigeria (AFARN). The award which was presented to SAHCO during its 2019Summit/Awards at the Sheraton Hotel &Towers, Ikeja, Lagos with the Theme: ‘Unlocking Potentials in the Aviation Industry through safety’, had in attendance key industry stakeholders and industry regulatory agencies. According to the organizers, SAHCO PLC won the award because ‘SAHCO’s services has continued to make great strides in the industry’ due to SAHCO’s unmatched track records in providing quality, safe and speedy Ground Handling services in the Aviation industry over the years. As part of the Panelist at the summit, Mr Basil Agboarumi, Managing Director/CEO, SAHCO PLC, stated that the importance of safety in the aviation sector cannot be overemphasized. He reiterated the need for alignment of purpose and vision in order to ensure safety is sustained while also stressing that  Ground Handlers, Airline companies and all the stakeholders must work together so as to unlock potentials in the Aviation Industry. In the same vein, the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has expressed appreciation to SAHCO for the company’s unwavering support and commitment towards the success of the 2019 general elections, urging SAHCO to sustain the commitment for quality service delivery at all times. The CBN stated that, they were pleased to express their appreciation for SAHCO’s active role and participation in the national assignment, stressing that SAHCO’s unflinching support and commitment towards the success of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) operations has been recognized and placed on record by the management of the bank.  SAHCO provide services in Ramp, Passenger and Cargo Handling. It  is involved in all the activities that takes place from the time an aircraft touches down on the tarmac to the time it is airborne, while also ensuring that Aviation Ground Handling services is carried out in an efficient, speedy and safe manner by deploying the right tools.