A private socio-economic club in Ogun-state, known as The Sagamites Club, has announced the launch of its annual leadership conference and business support initiative for local businesses in and around, Sagamu, Remo, Ogun state. (l-r) Dimeji Oresanya, Social Secretary, Mr. Seni Adetu, President and Engr. Funbi Dawodu, Vice President, during the press conference to announce the upcoming leadership empowerment conference of the  Sagamite Club of Sagamu, Ogun State, on Friday in Lagos.   This prestigious club made up of business executives from across various sectors of the economy have taken it upon themselves to enrich their community and commercially empower its citizens. At the press conference announcing this initiative yesterday were Seni Adetu, President of the Club, supported by Col. Duro Oyebanjo (rtd), Engineer Funbi Dawodu, Mr. Dimeji Oresanya and Prince Timothy Oke-owo, among other members. Speaking at the occasion, Mr. Adetu mentioned that the main empowerment conference will hold on Sunday 27th October and will involve mentorship sessions for youth in the environment. Notable among business leaders in the private and public sectors that have been invited to share their career experiences at the event are Prof. Toyin Ogundipe, Vice Chancellor University of Lagos, Mr. Tokunbo Talabi, Secretary to the government of Ogun State, Mr. Segun Ogunsanya Managing Director/CEO, Airtel Nigeria Plc and Mr. Fatai Folarin CEO Deloitte Nigeria & West Africa. Furthermore, Mr. Adetu disclosed that on the 27th October, the club would announce the award of its business support funds to 10 most qualified would-be-entrepreneurs, who will be selected based on merit and business proposition. (l-r) Col. (RTD) Duro Oyebanjo, Secretary General, Mr. Seni Adetu, President and Engr. Funbi Dawodu, Vice President, during the press conference to announce the upcoming leadership empowerment conference of the  Sagamite Club of Sagamu, Ogun State, on Friday in Lagos.  Mr. Adetu said “it is a privilege to support the less-privileged; we are inspired by the fact that we are positioned to be of help in changing the narrative of our community youth, from the lamentation of unemployment and perceived laziness, 419ners and drugs-consuming youth, to that of powerfully and gainfully employed young adults”. It will be recalled that the Sagamites club was founded in1972 and has since then been a major force for good in the Remo community and indeed Ogun State.