Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, a member of Standard Bank Group, won three awards at the All Africa Employee Engagement Awards held recently in Sandton, Johannesburg, South Africa. The All-African Employee Engagement Awards reward individuals and businesses for contributions to the development of employee engagement and the future of work on the African continent. Stanbic IBTC Holdings emerged winner in three of the 12 categories. The organisation won in the Customer and Employee Experience and Major Corporate Engagement Company of the Year categories. Mrs. Olufunke Amobi, Country Head, Human Capital at Stanbic IBTC was also awarded the 2019 Employment Engagement Professional of the Year.  The All Africa Employee Engagement Awards attracted entries from companies across the African continent.  Mrs. Amobi described the awards as a testament to the fact that Stanbic IBTC is a great place to work and provides a conducive environment for employees to thrive and excel. She said: “The awards recently won by Stanbic IBTC is a reflection of the values which we represent. We are very much interested in the growth and development of our employees; we promote respect for each other and we uphold the highest levels of integrity. We also encourage the culture of team bonding in addition to inspiring our employees to constantly raise the bar.”  She added that the awards would spur the Human Capital team of Stanbic IBTC Holdings to achieve more successes in the coming years.  About Stanbic IBTC  Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, a member of Standard Bank Group, is a full-service financial services group and Africa’s largest bank by assets with a clear focus on three main business pillars – Corporate and Investment Banking, Personal and Business Banking and Wealth Management.  The group’s largest shareholder is the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), the world’s largest bank, with a 20.1% shareholding. In addition, Standard Bank Group and ICBC share a strategic partnership that facilitates trade and deals flow between Africa, China, and select emerging markets. Standard Bank Group is the largest African financial institution by assets. It is rooted in Africa with strategic representation in 21 countries on the African continent. Standard Bank has been in operation for over 156 years and is focused on building first-class, on-the-ground financial services institutions in chosen countries in Africa; and connecting selected emerging markets to Africa by applying sector expertise, particularly in natural resources, power, and infrastructure.  For further information, go to www.stanbicibtc.com